---
title: IETF 115 Side Meeting Signups
description: To sign up for side meeting rooms at IETF 115
published: true
date: 2022-11-09T12:51:34.937Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-07-23T18:33:50.867Z
---

# Public Side Meetings at IETF 115


IETF participants occasionally organize side meetings around [IETF meetings](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings) to discuss topics of interest to some portion of the IETF community. While these are side meetings, the IETF does provide this wiki to register the topics, contact persons, dates and times, and other information about the meetings being planned. This page provides details for side meetings around  [IETF 115 London](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/115/).


### Notes about public side meetings

* Side meetings posted here are open for any registered IETF participant to attend and are subject to the [IETF Note Well](https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well).

* Working group business needs to occur during scheduled working group sessions in ways that comply with [RFC 2026](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2026.html)  and [RFC 2418](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2418.html), which is not the case for informal side meetings.

* Side meetings may be used for design teams or other informal discussions related to working groups.

* Side meetings do not record attendance ("blue sheets") as is done during IETF working groups sessions.

* New for IETF 115: Each room will be equipped with a [Meeting Owl](https://owllabs.com/products/meeting-owl-3) 360-degree camera with microphone and speaker to facilitate remote participation. Side meeting organizers are still responsible for providing their own conferencing bridge to use with the camera.

* Since there are many freely available conferencing services, the [IESG](https://www.ietf.org/about/groups/iesg/) has decided not to provide conferencing support for side meetings.

* Active consent from participants should be sought by organizers for any side meeting that is recorded.

* Side meeting dates and times should be listed in London local time, UTC+0 (Please note that the UK ends Daylight Savings on 30 October, so pay attention to your time zones!). For help converting time zones, please use a tool like [Time Zone Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html). 

If you would like to provide an .ics file for a side meeting, please put the link in the appropriate column below.

### Steps to schedule a side meeting

1. Please choose the day that you want to meet.
2. Please select the time that best accommodates your group and complete the table fields. At a minimum, please make sure to provide a meeting name, point of contact and meeting description.
3. Please arrange your own conferencing service and put the link in the table if you would like to have remote participants. 

[Monday](#Monday)
[Tuesday](#Tuesday)
[Wednesday](#Wednesday)
[Thursday](#Thursday)
[Friday](#Friday) 

# MONDAY 7 November {#Monday}

## Room: Richmond 6 - Monday
Occupancy: up to 40 attendees
Configuration: u-shape 
Location: West Wing, First Floor

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE         |     NOT AVAILABLE   |   NOT AVAILABLE   |   
|  08:30   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE           |  NOT AVAILABLE    |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  09:00   |  NOT AVAILABLE  | NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE          |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE    |  
|  09:30   |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE | NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE        |    NOT AVAILABLE   |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |       
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  11:30   |   IETF - ETSI IPE Side meeting  |   N/A  |   Latif Ladid latif@ladid.lu  | introduce to IETF individuals (1) IPE activities, including IPE role and scope, use cases, working items and (2) open discussion on IETF IPv6 protocol deployments  |  https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=m585f1d4bceaf1e5f7809a39d0d52af82 |   TBD  |   
|  12:00  |   IETF - ETSI IPE Side meeting  |   N/A  |   Latif Ladid latif@ladid.lu  | introduce to IETF individuals (1) IPE activities, including IPE role and scope, use cases, working items and (2) open discussion on IETF IPv6 protocol deployments  |  https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=m585f1d4bceaf1e5f7809a39d0d52af82 |   TBD  |
|  12:30   |   IETF - ETSI IPE Side meeting  |   N/A  |   Latif Ladid latif@ladid.lu  | introduce to IETF individuals (1) IPE activities, including IPE role and scope, use cases, working items and (2) open discussion on IETF IPv6 protocol deployments  |  https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=m585f1d4bceaf1e5f7809a39d0d52af82 |   TBD  |
|  13:00   |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE | NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE        |    NOT AVAILABLE   |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  13:30   | YANG/CBOR Kafka |   OPS       | Thomas Graf thomas.graf@swisscom.com | YANG Semantic Versioning Integration into Apache Kafka Message Broker |  https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_Nzk5Zjc5YTItYzE0Ny00YTAyLWJiOWItODIxMjBjZmQ2ODcx%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22364e5b87-c1c7-420d-9bee-c35d19b557a1%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22487bc3e3-9ce7-4cdd-b7b4-8899ea88d289%22%7d                    | -                      |         
|  14:00   | YANG/CBOR Kafka |   OPS       | Thomas Graf thomas.graf@swisscom.com |  YANG Semantic Versioning Integration into Apache Kafka Message Broker |  https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_Nzk5Zjc5YTItYzE0Ny00YTAyLWJiOWItODIxMjBjZmQ2ODcx%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22364e5b87-c1c7-420d-9bee-c35d19b557a1%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22487bc3e3-9ce7-4cdd-b7b4-8899ea88d289%22%7d                    | -                      |          
|  14:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  15:00   |     |   |      |         |                      |                       |          
|  15:30   |    |  |      |       |                      |                       |          
|  16:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  16:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  17:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  17:30   |          NGI0 EU funding info        |          |    Stephen Farrell (stephen.farrell@cd.tcd.ie)         |       N/A                  |   N/A                   |                       | 
|  18:00   |  Additional PQC Next Steps  |  SEC  | Roman Danyliw, rdd - at - cert.org  |  [Agenda](https://github.com/rdanyliw/ietf-pqc-transition/blob/main/ietf115-pqc-next-steps-side-meeting.md)  | [Zoom](https://cmu.zoom.us/j/91727694063?pwd=dUwyekRKVTVBL0E0eDFmTmFtdHlpdz09)    |                       |    
|  18:30   |  Additional PQC Next Steps |   SEC       |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:00   |  ECH Deployment Considerations | N/A | Arnaud Taddei (Arnaud.Taddei@Broadcom.com) and Andrew Campling (Andrew.Campling@419.Consulting) | Discuss ECH development and next steps | [Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84216816172?pwd=R0Y5NHEwenNYTjZmUWJnL29lSE5LUT09&from=addon) | TBD |    
|  19:30   |  ECH Deployment Considerations | N/A | Arnaud Taddei (Arnaud.Taddei@Broadcom.com) and Andrew Campling (Andrew.Campling@419.Consulting) | Discuss ECH development and next steps | [Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84216816172?pwd=R0Y5NHEwenNYTjZmUWJnL29lSE5LUT09&from=addon) | TBD |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |

## Room: GMT 1 - Monday
Configuration: conference
Location: East Wing, basement level -2
*Please note this room is a special case and is not available for further side meetings beyond the one listed here.*

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  17:30   |  DCMS/ISOC Policy Program | N/A | Stacie Hoffmann (stacie.hoffmann@dcms.gov.uk) and Olaf Kolkman (kolkman@isoc.org) | [IETF capacity building for public policymakers](https://isoc.box.com/s/ejw018iy6wxnm74vqohb7p2gouqfqw0d)  |  https://isoc.zoom.us/s/81240826419 | TBS       |
|  18:00   |  DCMS/ISOC Policy Program | N/A | Stacie Hoffmann (stacie.hoffmann@dcms.gov.uk) and Olaf Kolkman (kolkman@isoc.org) | idem  |  idem | TBS       |
|  18:30   |  DCMS/ISOC Policy Program | N/A | Stacie Hoffmann (stacie.hoffmann@dcms.gov.uk) and Olaf Kolkman (kolkman@isoc.org) | idem |  idem | TBS       |


## Room: Richmond 5 (IAB) - Monday
Configuration: conference
Location: West Wing, 1st floor
*Please note this room is a special case and is not available for further side meetings beyond the one listed here.*

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  17:30   |  Public Interest Technology Group (PITG) | N/A | Corinne Cath-Speth (corinnecath@gmail.com) and Gurshabad Grover (gurshabad@cis-india.org) | Public interest technology group | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89291161522?pwd=dUhoYXFmMkg0MFNoYVNReCtqc0xydz09 | -      |



## Room: Mezzanine 12 - Monday
Occupancy: up to 12 attendees
Configuration: conference
Location: Mezzanine Level

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |  side meeting on Metaverse | TSV, INT, RTG | Giuseppe Fioccola (giuseppe.fioccola@huawei.com) Shuping Peng (pengshuping@huawei.com) | Discussion about the related IETF technologies and understand what IETF can or cannot do on Metaverse| https://welink.zhumu.com/j/131832648 | TBD |
|  08:30   |  side meeting on Metaverse | TSV, INT, RTG | Giuseppe Fioccola (giuseppe.fioccola@huawei.com) Shuping Peng (pengshuping@huawei.com) | Discussion about the related IETF technologies and understand what IETF can or cannot do on Metaverse| https://welink.zhumu.com/j/131832648 | TBD |
|  09:00   |  side meeting on Metaverse | TSV, INT, RTG | Giuseppe Fioccola (giuseppe.fioccola@huawei.com) Shuping Peng (pengshuping@huawei.com) | Discussion about the related IETF technologies and understand what IETF can or cannot do on Metaverse| https://welink.zhumu.com/j/131832648 | TBD |
|  09:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  11:30   |  DMLMO Side meeting    | N/A  |   Marisol Palmero mpalmero@cisco.com     |   iteration of the model - comments to the draft      |          https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=m1d7f9106bf8938e58cc435ec2470f6ba   Password: XehPx4gtx25 (93479448 from phones)               |                       |  
|  12:00   |  DMLMO Side meeting    | N/A  |   Marisol Palmero mpalmero@cisco.com     |   iteration of the model - comments to the draft      |       https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=m1d7f9106bf8938e58cc435ec2470f6ba   Password: XehPx4gtx25 (93479448 from phones)            |                       |  
|  12:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |   
|  14:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  14:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |   
|  15:00   |  ACTN POI  |   RTG     |  Italo Busi (italo.busi@huawei.com) | SR-TE comments to the draft                        |                      |                       |          
|  15:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  16:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  16:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  17:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  17:30   |            |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  18:00   |  BGP Yang AS Path    | RTG  |  Susan Hares (shares@ndzh.com)    | BGP Yang AS Path RegEx - Can we think of better way?   |                      |                       |    
|  18:30   |  BGP Yang AS Path |  RTG  | Susan Hares (shares@ndzh.com)   | BGP Yang AS Path RegEx - Can we think of better way?    |                      |                       |    
|  19:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |

# TUESDAY 8 November {#Tuesday}

## Room: Richmond 6 - Tuesday
Occupancy: up to 40 attendees
Configuration: u-shape 
Location: West Wing, First Floor

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE         |     NOT AVAILABLE   |   NOT AVAILABLE   |   
|  08:30   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE           |  NOT AVAILABLE    |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  09:00   |  SCITT  | SEC |  Hannes Tschofenig |  Architecture and Use cases          |     |       |  
|  09:30   |  SCITT  |  SEC | Hannes Tschofenig | Architecture and Use cases        |      |       | 
|  10:00   |   SCITT    |  SEC   |  Hannes Tschofenig |    Architecture and Use cases       |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |   SCITT      |  SEC  | Hannes Tschofenig |    Architecture and Use cases     |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   |   SCITT         |  SEC  |   Hannes Tschofenig  |   Architecture and Use cases   |                      |                       |          
|  11:30   | SECDIR Lunch   |  SEC          |  SEC ADs             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  12:00   | SECDIR Lunch   |  SEC         |  SEC ADs           |                         |                      |                       |  
|  12:30   | SECDIR Lunch  |  SEC         |  SEC ADs           |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  14:00   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  14:30   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  15:00   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  15:30   |  Is Privacy preserving Web Filtering Possible?  |  N/A | dan@iwf.org.uk | Outline the problem and encourage discussion of solutions that are compatible with internet privacy standards    | https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81406316450?pwd=Z3VTU1BPNE5iVGhiSGE3bFBaOEVvQT09 Meeting ID: 814 0631 6450 Passcode: 605274          |                       |
|  16:00   |  Is Privacy preserving Web Filtering Possible?	 |  N/A  | dan@iwf.org.uk |  Outline the problem and encourage discussion of solutions that are compatible with internet privacy standards    | https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81406316450?pwd=Z3VTU1BPNE5iVGhiSGE3bFBaOEVvQT09 Meeting ID: 814 0631 6450 Passcode: 605274                     |                       |    
|  16:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  17:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  17:30   |   emodir         |     GEN  |       emodir-chairs@ietf.org      |  Meeting of the EMO Directorate [agenda](https://notes.ietf.org/emodir-20221108) |      [Zoom](https://ietf.zoom.us/j/85396289621?pwd=YWhYcWY4cmRVMnRFUnR1bWFoY0V3QT09) Meeting ID: 853 9628 9621 Passcode: 211534                 |    
|  18:00   |   emodir         |     GEN  |       emodir-chairs@ietf.org      |  Meeting of the EMO Directorate [agenda](https://notes.ietf.org/emodir-20221108)  |                       |    
|  18:30   |     |  |        |         |                      |                       |          
|  19:00   |      |   |       |        |                      |                       |          
|  19:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |


## Room: Mezzanine 12 - Tuesday
Occupancy: up to 12 attendees
Configuration: conference
Location: Mezzanine Level

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:30   |  Enterprise Inventory Management| OPS   | Qin Wu (bill.wu@huawei.com)    |Discuss inventory management gap in RFC8345 |
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84747399084?pwd=cFFWMFB5TVdabUNlaDFrQ2V1UGE0QT09 | | 
|  09:00   | Enterprise Inventory Management|  OPS         |Qin Wu (bill.wu@huawei.com) |Discuss inventory management gap in RFC8345             |                      |                       |  
|          |                  |                  |                 |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  10:30   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  11:30   |     open source routing@ietf             |     rtg     |     lberger@labn.net        |               Come discuss your favorite open source routing-related project          |  rtg-open-source@ietf.org and https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/rtg-open-source                    |                       |    
|  12:00   |   open source routing@ietf               |  rtg        |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  12:30   |   open source routing@ietf               |     rtg     |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:30   |  YANG Versioning  |  OPS (NETMOD)   |  jason.sterne@nokia.com   | Discuss issues around 5 versioning drafts |  https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m93c16d28554163e5136ead7990a7ee24  |                       |    
|  14:00   | YANG Versioning  |  OPS (NETMOD) | jason.sterne@nokia.com | Discuss issues around 5 versioning drafts | https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m93c16d28554163e5136ead7990a7ee24  |                       |          
|  14:30   |  PQC in OpenPGP  |  SEC     | Aron Wussler (aron@wussler.it) |  Discuss key points for the PQC draft standardization in OpenPGP  |  Starting at 14:50 @ https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86081902144?pwd=c1FkZm8xNTdUZkVEOERJb1FlMFJlUT09                    |                       |          
|  15:00   |  PQC in OpenPGP  |  SEC     | aron@wussler.it  |                         |                      |                       |          
|  15:30   |  PQC in OpenPGP  |  SEC     |  aron@wussler.it |                         |                      |                       |          
|  16:00   |  Discuss IPv6 enterprise issues                |   OPS       | xipengxiao@huawei.com; Ackermann, Michael <MAckermann@bcbsm.com>  | Mike will present a list of IPv6 issues for enterprises. All attendees will discuss how to solve these issues     | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89765510503?pwd=ZHVjSnVDcE0yZ0ZReCt2RWNqbDV1dz09, Meeting ID: 897 6551 0503, Passcode: 298239 (courtesy Barbara Stark)  |             |  
|  16:30   |  Discuss IPv6 enterprise issues                |   OPS       | xipengxiao@huawei.com; Ackermann, Michael <MAckermann@bcbsm.com>             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  17:00   |  Discuss IPv6 enterprise issues                |     OPS     | xipengxiao@huawei.com; Ackermann, Michael <MAckermann@bcbsm.com>             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  17:30   |   Discuss 6G topics related to IP     |       |Behcet Sarikaya (Sarikaya@ieee.org), Dirk v. Hugo (Dirk.von-hugo@telekom.de)          | 3GPP representative to provide information |   https://dtag.webex.com/dtag/j.php?MTID=m80d6c571a7ea1a43195727182b679238              |    [text-3.ics](/test-folder/text-3.ics)
|  18:00   |     Discuss 6G topics related to IP     |       |Behcet Sarikaya (Sarikaya@ieee.org), Dirk v. Hugo (Dirk.von-hugo@telekom.de)        |    subscribe to 6gip@ietf.org This meeting is online mainly (from Webex link), Roland Schott will chair the room, contact him for requests
|  18:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |

# Wednesday 9 November {#Wednesday}

## Room: Richmond 6 - Wednesday
Occupancy: up to 40 attendees
Configuration: u-shape 
Location: West Wing, First Floor

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  09:30   |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE | NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE        |    NOT AVAILABLE   |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  10:00   |6761bis||Paul Hoffman (paul.hoffman@icann.org)|Discussion of the future of RFC 6761 registry; for example, see (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-hoffman-rfc6761bis/)|     [Zoom link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83413016917?pwd=UkVUc0ZtTzdjKzVKOUNzeUYvcVE3dz09) Meeting ID: 834 1301 6917, Passcode: test-onion                 |                       | 
|  10:30   | DINRG | IRTF | Lixia Zhang (lixia@cs.ucla.edu) |continuing discussion on DINRG charter revision |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   | DINRG | IRTF |  ||                      |                       |          
|  11:30   | EToSat | TSV | John Border (John.Border@Hughes.com) | 11:45 to 12:45 | [Teams link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MjEzNzVlYWQtZmU4MC00MGNkLWJlYzQtMjJlMjVlNGRmZDdj%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220e1f3187-4610-4ce2-bad1-b92f4ba36ab3%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%222ba280b6-ebe0-45c4-ae7e-af3563b57eb1%22%7d)                     |                       |      
|  12:00   | EToSat | TSV |             | Discussion to focus on Geosynchronous orbit satellite issues | Meeting ID: 288 481 427 863  Passcode: QnGcjv                     |                       |     
|  12:30   | EToSat | TSV |             | etosat@ietf.org |                      |                       |    
|  13:00   |DBOUND side meeting||Paul Hoffman (paul.hoffman@icann.org)|DBOUND use cases and way forward; see the [eariler DBOUND WG](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/dbound/about/) for more info|   [Zoom link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81992705145?pwd=UkRvRit0alZmNmlVMTU3OExCeS9WQT09) Meeting ID: 819 9270 5145, Passcode: notzonecut                                  |                       |    
|  13:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |      
|  14:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  14:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  15:00   | IPMON     | INT    | Jaehoon Paul Jeong (jaehoon.paul@gmail.com) | Gap Analysis and Work Items for IPv6 Moving Object Networking |WebEx: https://skku-ict.webex.com/skku-ict/j.php?MTID=m220bf7659c6ac2e6783c09a41dd2c4c4|                       |
|  15:30   | IPMON     | INT    | Jaehoon Paul Jeong (jaehoon.paul@gmail.com) | Gap Analysis and Work Items for IPv6 Moving Object Networking |WebEx: https://skku-ict.webex.com/skku-ict/j.php?MTID=m220bf7659c6ac2e6783c09a41dd2c4c4|                       |
|  16:00   | IPMON     | INT    | Jaehoon Paul Jeong (jaehoon.paul@gmail.com) | Gap Analysis and Work Items for IPv6 Moving Object Networking |WebEx: https://skku-ict.webex.com/skku-ict/j.php?MTID=m220bf7659c6ac2e6783c09a41dd2c4c4|                       |
|  16:30   | REGEXT WG | ART | Pawel Kowalik (kowalik at denic.de) | Discuss draft-ietf-regext-rdap-openid | https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82146104492?pwd=R2x3K0FjQjNmZjl4bmlMeGZWdVNOUT09 |  |  
|  17:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  17:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  18:00   | Routing Research | Routing | Dirk Trossen (dirk.trossen@huawei.com) | Presentations of selected routing papers from ACM SIGCOMM FIRA workshop and ACM ICN |[Google Meet Link](https://meet.google.com/urn-ivxs-qnp)|                       |    
|  18:30   |  Routing Research | Routing | Dirk Trossen (dirk.trossen@huawei.com) | Presentations of selected routing papers from ACM SIGCOMM FIRA workshop and ACM ICN |  [Google Meet Link](https://meet.google.com/urn-ivxs-qnp)|                       |   
|  19:00   |  Routing Research | Routing | Dirk Trossen (dirk.trossen@huawei.com) | Presentations of selected routing papers from ACM SIGCOMM FIRA workshop and ACM ICN |  [Google Meet Link](https://meet.google.com/urn-ivxs-qnp)|                       |   
|  19:30   |   Routing Research | Routing | Dirk Trossen (dirk.trossen@huawei.com) | Presentations of selected routing papers from ACM SIGCOMM FIRA workshop and ACM ICN | [Google Meet Link](https://meet.google.com/urn-ivxs-qnp) |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |


## Room: Mezzanine 12 - Wednesday
Occupancy: up to 12 attendees
Configuration: conference
Location: Mezzanine Level

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  08:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  09:00   | SCITT                 | Security        | Hannes Tschofenig (hannes.tschofenig@arm.com)          | Use Cases and Architecture Discussion  | NA    |                       |         
|  09:30  | SCITT                 | Security        | Hannes Tschofenig (hannes.tschofenig@arm.com)          | Use Cases and Architecture Discussion  | NA    |                       |  
|  10:00   | SCITT                 | Security        | Hannes Tschofenig (hannes.tschofenig@arm.com)          | Use Cases and Architecture Discussion  | NA    |                       |       
|  10:30   | SCITT                 | Security        | Hannes Tschofenig (hannes.tschofenig@arm.com)          | Use Cases and Architecture Discussion  | NA    |                       |             
|  11:00  | SCITT                 | Security        | Hannes Tschofenig (hannes.tschofenig@arm.com)           | Use Cases and Architecture Discussion  | NA    |                       |       
|  11:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |   
|  12:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  12:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  13:00   | Matrix sync                 | MIMI         | Matthew Hodgson (matthew@matrix.org)             |  Matrix governance discussion                       |                      |                       | 
|  13:30   | Matrix sync                 | MIMI         | Matthew Hodgson (matthew@matrix.org)            |   Matrix governance discussion                      |                      |                       |   
|  14:00   | RSSAC028 Implementation consortium | private | Willem Toorop (willem@nlnetlabs.nl) | bi-weekly conference call |                       |          
|  14:30   | RSSAC028 Implementation consortium | private | Willem Toorop (willem@nlnetlabs.nl) | bi-weekly conference call |                       |          
|  15:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  15:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |   
|  16:00   | SCIM             | ART      | Aaron Parecki (aaron@parecki.com)            | Discuss current SCIM documents  | https://okta.zoom.us/j/93252204133?pwd=bkVlYTg3WlQweDdmQ1JUVml0MVlXZz09 <br> Meeting ID: 932 5220 4133 <br> Passcode: 363293                     |                       |   
|  16:30   | SCIM                 |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  17:00   | SCIM                 |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  17:30   |   ALTO                |   Discuss Current WG status       |     jros@qti.qualcomm.com        |                         |     https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=ma0e97cc97c4cd71bb59cf1a094682686                 |                       |  
|  18:00   |   ALTO                |   Discuss Current WG status       |     jros@qti.qualcomm.com        |                         |     https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=ma0e97cc97c4cd71bb59cf1a094682686                 |                       |  
|  18:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |

# Thursday 10 November {#Thursday}

## Room: Richmond 6 - Thursday
Occupancy: up to 40 attendees
Configuration: u-shape 
Location: West Wing, First Floor

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE         |     NOT AVAILABLE   |   NOT AVAILABLE   |   
|  08:30   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE           |  NOT AVAILABLE    |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  09:00   |  NOT AVAILABLE  | NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE          |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE    |  
|  09:30   |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE | NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE        |    NOT AVAILABLE   |  NOT AVAILABLE     | 
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  10:30   | Specification of Attestation Protocols in Trusted Execution Environments | Security (IETF RATS, TEEP) | Muhammad Usama Sardar (muhammad_usama.sardar at tu-dresden.de) | Intel Trust Domain Extensions (TDX) as a use case | https://tu-dresden.zoom.us/j/64523897756?pwd=bWE3ZXVwbEFLTGt1L2NGdjZnZkFEdz09    Meeting ID: 645 2389 7756 , Passcode: W#t?zW#5                 |                       |         
|  11:00   | Specification of Attestation Protocols in Trusted Execution Environments | Security (IETF RATS, TEEP) | Muhammad Usama Sardar (muhammad_usama.sardar at tu-dresden.de) | Intel Trust Domain Extensions (TDX) as a use case | https://tu-dresden.zoom.us/j/64523897756?pwd=bWE3ZXVwbEFLTGt1L2NGdjZnZkFEdz09    Meeting ID: 645 2389 7756 , Passcode: W#t?zW#5                 |                       |         
|  11:30   |   Usable Formal Methods  |   IRTF  |   Colin Perkins |   |   |    |   
|  12:00   |   Usable Formal Methods  |  IRTF  |   Colin Perkins  |    |   |    | 
|  12:30   |   Usable Formal Methods  |  IRTF |  Colin Perkins  |    |   |     |
|  13:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  13:30   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   
|  14:00   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  14:30   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  15:00   |   OAuth WG       | Security | rifaat.s.ietf@gmail.com | Discuss various OAuth topics |                      |      | 
|  15:30   | vCon Bar BoF     | ART      | Dan Petrie (dan.ietf at sipez.com)          | Work on charter for vCon | TBD |                       |  
|  16:00   | vCon Bar BoF     | ART      | Dan Petrie (dan.ietf at sipez.com)          | Work on charter for vCon | TBD |    
|  16:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |  
|  17:00   | CONGRESS Bar BoF | TSV      | martin.h.duke@gmail.com | Charter for congestion ontrol work | TBD     |  TBD        |
|  17:30   | CONGRESS Bar BoF | TSV      | martin.h.duke@gmail.com | Charter for congestion ontrol work | TBD     |  TBD        | 
|  18:00   | IPv6 EH Side Meeting | OPS/INT |  Nalini J Elkins |  Troubleshooting IPv6 EHs  | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82068851072?pwd=VWJjeDF2M0tPSkNzQzhwaHVUSTFBZz09 | TODO |    
|  18:30   | IPv6 EH Side Meeting | OPS/INT |  Nalini J Elkins |  Troubleshooting IPv6 EHs  | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82068851072?pwd=VWJjeDF2M0tPSkNzQzhwaHVUSTFBZz09 | TODO |    
|  19:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  19:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |


## Room: Mezzanine 12 - Thursday
Occupancy: up to 12 attendees
Configuration: conference
Location: Mezzanine Level

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  
|  08:30   |   Network/OTN Slicing Side Meeting  |  TEAS/CCAMP        |   Aihua Guo (aihuaguo.ietf@gmail.com)          |    Discussing topology & other open issues                     |    https://futurewei.zoom.us/j/7999264574?pwd=Y00rMTBsUm9vSzBMeklYb2ErdXA2Zz09                  |    TBD                   | 
|  09:00   |    Network/OTN Slicing Side Meeting              |  TEAS/CCAMP        |   Aihua Guo (aihuaguo.ietf@gmail.com)          |   Discussing topology & other open issues                      |    https://futurewei.zoom.us/j/7999264574?pwd=Y00rMTBsUm9vSzBMeklYb2ErdXA2Zz09                  |        TBD               |  
|  09:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  11:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  12:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  12:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |
|  13:00   |   LPWAN WG   |   INT    |  Alexander Pelov / Pascal Thubert   |   Focus discussion on LPWAN Architecture           |                      |                       |
|  13:30   |   LPWAN WG   |   INT    |  Alexander Pelov / Pascal Thubert   |   Focus discussion on LPWAN Architecture           |                      |                       |
|  14:00   |   LPWAN WG   |   INT    |  Alexander Pelov / Pascal Thubert   |   Focus discussion on LPWAN Architecture           |                      |                       |             |         
|  14:30   |   LPWAN WG   |   INT    |  Alexander Pelov / Pascal Thubert   |   Focus discussion on LPWAN Architecture           |                      |                       |
|  15:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  15:30   |  Proposed RASP RG       | IRTF       | Niels ten Oever            |    Proposed research group coordination meeting for research and analysis of standards-process data            |  https://uva-live.zoom.us/s/6365963924             |                       |          
|  16:00   |  Proposed RASP RG       | IRTF       | Niels ten Oever            |    Proposed research group coordination meeting for research and analysis of standards-process data            |  https://uva-live.zoom.us/s/6365963924             |                       |          
|  16:30   |  RAW WG          | INT      | Pascal Thubert | Focus discussion on RAW Architecture |    https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=mf48fb94a6b385f99dfd51b4b06f53bb6                  |                       |  
|  17:00   |  RAW WG          | INT      | Pascal Thubert | Focus discussion on RAW Architecture |     https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=mf48fb94a6b385f99dfd51b4b06f53bb6                 |                       |    
|  17:30   |  RAW WG          | INT      | Pascal Thubert | Focus discussion on RAW Architecture |     https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?MTID=mf48fb94a6b385f99dfd51b4b06f53bb6                 |                       |    
|  18:00   |  eBPF Bar BoF    | INT      | Dave Thaler | Determine whether to standardize some part of eBPF in IETF | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83038515863?pwd=czQrWTdVcGlMWER2MGN6V2pOSFhGQT09                     |                       |    
|  18:30   |  eBPF Bar BoF    | INT      | Dave Thaler | Determine whether to standardize some part of eBPF in IETF | https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83038515863?pwd=czQrWTdVcGlMWER2MGN6V2pOSFhGQT09                     |                       |    
|  19:00   |  KIRA Bar BoF    | Routing   | Roland Bless   | Discussion/Questions & Answers around KIRA                  |  https://kit-lecture.zoom.us/j/62846470559?pwd=K1NVR3dGNDIwVXYreFZPalB6K0svUT09                     |                       |    
|  19:30   |  KIRA Bar BoF    | Routing   | Roland Bless   | Discussion/Questions & Answers around KIRA                  |  https://kit-lecture.zoom.us/j/62846470559?pwd=K1NVR3dGNDIwVXYreFZPalB6K0svUT09                    |                       |    
|  20:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |

# Friday 11 November {#Friday}

## Room: Richmond 6 - Friday
Occupancy: up to 40 attendees
Configuration: u-shape 
Location: West Wing, First Floor

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE  |  NOT AVAILABLE         |     NOT AVAILABLE   |   NOT AVAILABLE   |   
|  08:30   |   IETF Outreach  | GEN      | Dhruv Dhody | In the past, ISOC organised "IETF in Regions" meetings. EMODIR is planning a side meeting to discuss various regional outreach activities, share ideas and learn from each other.| [ZOOM](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84213066829?pwd=ekE0N0taZlptcWlUY3hQOEhzd1huUT09) | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15uYcjyv9Hj4e2OFGT5U0OY9YjSyPXvtD/view?usp=sharing) | 
|  09:00   |  IETF Outreach  | GEN      | Dhruv Dhody | " | " | " | 
|  09:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  11:30-  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   


## Room: Mezzanine 12 - Friday
Occupancy: up to 12 attendees
Configuration: conference
Location: Mezzanine Level

| **Time** | **Meeting Name** | **Area** | **Contact** | **Meeting Description** | **Conferencing Link** | **.ics** |
|----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------|
|  -07:30  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |
|  08:00   |                  |          |             |                         |     
|  08:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |
|  09:00   ||                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |
|  09:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       | 
|  10:30   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |         
|  11:00   |                  |          |             |                         |                      |                       |          
|  11:30-  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   NOT AVAILABLE |  NOT AVAILABLE |   NOT AVAILABLE  |   
