---
title: 2021-11-30
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-02T21:40:34.464Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-02T21:40:30.169Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2021-11-30
[DONE] Action Item: Jeffrey He to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-
classification for IRSG Review.

Action Item: Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of 
Conduct.

Action Item: Brian Trammell, Jane Coffin, and Allison Mankin to 
review Diversity Travel grant submissions in January. Reese 
Enghardt will chair the review panel.

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the November 30, 2021 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

   Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
   Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair
   Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
   Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
   Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
   Mat Ford, At-Large Member
   Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
   Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
   Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
   Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
   Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
   Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
   Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
   Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat

Regrets:

   Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
   Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
   Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
   Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
   Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
   Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
   Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
   Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
   Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
   Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
   Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
   Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
   Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
   Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
   Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair    
   Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
   Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair 
   Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
   Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
   Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
   Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair
   Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair* Action Item Review

 * DONE

    * Dirk Kutscher and Dave Oran to coordinate with Cindy 
Morgan of the IETF Secretariat to select a date and time for the 
ICNRG review with the IAB [December 2021 - IAB meeting dates 
available: December 8 or December 15]. - Scheduled for January 
19, 2022

    * Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs for 
IRSG Review.

    * The IRSG to review the IRTF Notewell slides and suggest 
changes if necessary [https://irtf.org/policies/note-well.html].


 * IN PROGRESS

    * Lars Eggert to re-review draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte for 
IRSG Review.

    * Marie-José Montpetit to review draft-irtf-qirg-principles 
for IRSG Review.

    * Colin Perkins to draft text to update the IRTF Note Well slides 
to match the IRTF Web site.

* IRTF Document Status
 * With RFC Editor
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan (moved to AUTH48-DONE Nov. 24)
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements (moved to AUTH48-DONE 
Nov. 29)
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke (sent to RFC Editor Nov. 11)

 * In IESG Conflict Review
   - draft-irtf-panrg-questions (IESG reviewer: Martin Duke, on 
agenda for December 2)

Spencer Dawkins noted that some comments had come from the ALTO 
WG chair.

Brian Trammell mentioned he had seen the comments, but was not 
inclined to change the document in any significant way due to 
comments from the IETF. As an IRTF document, the purpose of the 
document is to describe what the research group is thinking 
about.

Colin Perkins agreed with the assessment, and added typos and 
nits can be fixed as necessary. 

Spencer agreed no action was needed to move the document 
forward.


 * In IRSG Final Poll
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (4 yes, 3 no-obs)

Colin Perkins noted the poll completed and the document is 
waiting on some minor revisions.

Stanislav Smyshlyaev agreed. He said the author would update the 
document and it would be ready for the next step [IESG Conflict 
Review]. 

 * In IRSG Reviews
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (reviewer: Lars Eggert)
   - draft-irtf-qirg-principles (reviewer: Marie-José 
Montpetit)
   - draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification (reviewer: 
Jeffrey He)
   - draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs

 * In IRTF Chair Review
   - draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve

* Research Groups Status
 * ICNRG review with IAB scheduled for January, 2022

Dave Oran mentioned the ICNRG will hold an interim meeting in 
December 2021.

* Post-IETF 112 review 
 * Items of interest from RGs/issues to raise?

Colin Perkins said that two research groups would be adding new 
chairs, GAIA will add Kurtis Heimerl and HRPC is still looking 
for candidates. 

Colin also spoke about the IETF 112 side meetings, one on 
semantic routing that proposed a research group charter that was 
narrower than expected. He noted he would likely not charter a 
new group at this time, as it looked like the work would overlap 
with both COINRG and also possibly PANRG. The contractual 
routing, semantic routing, and internet addressing that seem 
closely related. He suggested the proponents start with COINRG 
to develop the ideas further. 

Brian Trammell noted it seemed SCION-like.

Dave Oran mentioned that the active disregard for the SCION work 
was troubling.

Colin mentioned the possibility of a multipath research group, 
in transport, but that it might overlap with ICCRG and PANRG. 
The discussion is ongoing.

In other IETF 112 wrap-up, Brian noted that it was easier to 
block time for an IETF meeting if there was travel to someplace 
else involved, and he is looking forward to traveling again.

* Planning for IETF 113
 * Expect venue announcement on 17 December

Dave Oran asked if there was any more information on the March 
2022 IETF meeting.

Colin Perkins said the location is expected to be central Europe 
and the LLC has a plan to announce the venue on December 17. The 
current plan is to go ahead with a hybrid meeting, provided 
enough people will be able to travel.

Lars Eggert said the LLC was prepared to take a financial hit if 
the hybrid meeting is planned for and announced and had to be 
canceled for any reason before the meeting. He said the IESG was 
monitoring the community for early attendance numbers, and the 
IESG would include Colin in any decision.

Colin reiterated that the IRSG had the flexibility as chairs to 
decide whether or not to meet at an in-person hybrid meeting. 
And if a face-to-face hybrid meeting happens, to plan for a 
larger than usual number of remote attendees and presenters.

Spencer Dawkins mentioned he thought the plenary happening 
outside of the IETF week may provide an opening for groups like 
IRTFOpen to meet outside of scheduled meeting time.

Colin wanted to know how successful the plenary session was. 

Lars said the attendance was okay. The feedback from people who 
missed the announcements of the experiment was as expected. He 
also said that they won't run the experiment a second time if 
the next meeting is a hybrid meeting.

Allison Mankin mentioned there was a renewed interest in holding 
a technical plenary session, and a proposed topic on 
surveillance capitalism. 

Stephen Farrell stated that might be a better topic for a 
meeting that was not hybrid. 

More discussion on the possibility would be necessary.

* IRTF diversity travel grants

Colin Perkins said that the organizations who wanted to provide 
sponsorship funds to cover travel grants to the IETF for IRTF 
participants rolled over their sponsorships to 2022, so the IRTF 
has budget to provide grants. He was looking for a few 
volunteers to run a committee to manage the travel grant 
process. 

Brian Trammell, Jane Coffin, and Allison Mankin volunteered to 
serve as the committee. Colin mentioned once the venue for IETF 
113 is announced, the travel scholarship will also be announced 
and he expected the deadline for applications would be sometime 
in January 2022.

Action Item: Brian Trammell, Jane Coffin, and Allison Mankin to 
review Diversity Travel grant submissions in January. Reese 
Enghardt will chair the review panel.

* IRTF Note Well

This topic was a continuation of the topic from the October 26, 
2021 IRSG Teleconference. Colin Perkins mentioned he had sent 
some text changes for the IRSG to consider for the IRTF Note 
Well slides. A couple of people had replied onlist and agreed 
with the proposed text. Colin will wait a few days for others to 
comment before passing the text by the IETF counsel and updating 
the slides in question.

Spencer Dawkins asked about the IETF Code of Conduct and 
Ombudsteam.

Colin responded that would be a larger issue, as in speaking 
with members of the Ombudsteam it was suggested they collaborate 
on a one-page update to the current Ombudsteam documentation to 
include the IRTF. For the IETF Code of Conduct, there would have 
to be some additions regarding academic integrity and issues 
around plagiarism that would need to be added for the IRTF. And 
that it would have to align with ACM SIGCOMM's Code of Conduct. 

Action Item: Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of 
Conduct.

* Update on ANRP

Colin Perkins noted the ANRP reviews are in process, and he 
thanked the IRSG for the nomination pool. He expects the Prize 
winners to be announced in January 2022.

* Any Other Business

Jane Coffin said that it was her last day with ISOC, and she 
would continue chairing the GAIA Research Group.

* Next meeting: January 25, 2022 15:00 UTC