---
title: 2021-10-26
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-02T20:20:17.511Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-02T20:20:17.511Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2021-10-26
Action item: Colin Perkins to draft text to update the IRTF Note Well 
slides to match the IRTF Web site.

INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the October 26, 2021 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

    Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
    Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
    Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
    Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
    Mat Ford, At-Large Member
    Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
    Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
    Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
    Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
    Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
    Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair
    Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
    Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat

Regrets:

    Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
    Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair
    Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
    Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
    Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
    Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
    Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
    Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
    Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
    Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
    Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
    Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
    Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
    Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
    Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
    Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
    Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair
    Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
    Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
    Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
    Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
    Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair
    Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair

  * Bash the agenda/Announcements 
  * Meeting Minutes 

* Action Item Review 
  * DONE 
     * Stephen Farrell to look at the SSR Web site to evaluate if co-
locating with the IRTF seems logical. 
     * Colin Perkins to publish the Policy on Inclusive Language in 
IRTF RFCs on the IRTF Web site. [https://irtf.org/policies/inclusive-
language.html]
 
  * IN PROGRESS 
     * Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs for IRSG 
Review. 
     * Lars Eggert to re-review draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte for IRSG 
Review. 
     * Marie-José Montpetit to review draft-irtf-qirg-principles for 
IRSG Review. 
     * Dirk Kutscher and Dave Oran to coordinate with Cindy Morgan of 
the IETF Secretariat to select a date and time for the ICNRG review 
with the IAB [December 2021 - IAB meeting dates available: December 8 
or December 15]. 
     * The IRSG to review the IRTF Notewell slides and suggest changes 
if necessary [https://irtf.org/policies/note-well.html]. 

* IRTF Document Status
  * With RFC Editor 
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan 
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements 

  * In IESG Conflict Review 
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke (IESG reviewer: Roman Danyliw, on agenda 
for October 28) 

  * In IRSG Final Poll 
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (2 yes, 2 no-obs) 
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations (Poll closed: 2 yes, 3 
no-obs) 

  * In IRSG Reviews 
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (reviewer: Lars Eggert) 
    - draft-irtf-qirg-principles (reviewer: Marie-José Montpetit) 

  * In IRTF Chair Review 
    - draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion
 

* Research Groups Status 
  * ICNRG review with IAB scheduled for [?]

Dave Oran and Dirk Kutscher will coordinate to choose a date.
 
* Other activities  
  * ANRP Status 

The call for nominations for 2022 went out in October. 
 
  * ANRW Status (Summer 2022) 

There is work being done to set up a steering committee for 2022. 
Requesting suggestions for program committee co-chairs.
 
  * Other events (SSR and IRTF co-located Nov 2022?) 

Colin Perkins to follow up with SSR regarding co-locating meetings 
late in 2022. Alexey Melnikov will check on issues security. 

* IRTF Note Well [https://irtf.org/policies/note-well.html] 

Colin Perkins spoke to the IRTF Note Well slides being out of 
alignment with the IETF Note Well.

Mirja Kuehlewind wanted to know what the proposed text would be. She 
noted that the slides should be short, but the Web page can be more in 
depth.

Lars Eggert said the IRSG wanted something more descriptive. But the 
first slide in the deck should match the IETF.

Mirja asked if the second slide was needed.

Colin Perkins replied yes, for face to face meetings, reminding the 
participants they would be recorded is useful. He noted the IETF anti-
harassment policy does not mention the IRTF, and did the IRSG want to 
make a statement?

Spencer Dawkins asked if the IRTF uses the same ombudsteam process. 

Colin replied the IRTF does, but it is not documented.

Melinda Shore noted that the ombudsteam pages do not mention the IRTF, 
and she would raise the issue with the ombudsteam.

Colin also stated that the IETF code of conduct is IETF specific. But 
this was a bigger issue to raise in the IRTF.

Spencer noted if IRTF meetings are not co-located with the IETF, would 
the IRSG expect the same code of conduct applies.

Mirja noted that ethical considerations of conducting research is not 
covered in the IETF Code of Conduct, and should be considered.

Action item: Colin Perkins to draft text to update the IRTF Note Well 
slides to match the IRTF Web site.

* Teleconference Meeting Cadence and Meeting Time for 2022

The IRSG decided to move the IRSG teleconference to 15:00 UTC between 
IETF 112 and IETF 113 (November 30, January 25, and February 22). 

* IETF 112 Agenda 

Colin Perkins asked if anyone had heard of hot topics coming up at 
IETF 112.

Lars Eggert mentioned a group wanting to meet. 

Colin mentioned he thought it was one specific company asking for a 
research group, but unless they can bring a verified community he 
wasn't going to approve a group. He noted some people were getting 
pressure to support a document. Colin mentioned he might comment in 
IRTFOpen. 

Spencer Dawkins suggested putting together a primer or checklist for 
successful work in the IRTF.

Colin said he would add a slide to the deck.

* RFCEFDP Documents Community Review 
  - draft-carpenter-rfced-iab-charter-03 - IAB Charter Update for RFC 
Editor Model 
  - draft-iab-rfcefdp-rfced-model-05 - RFC Editor Model (Version 3) 
  - draft-rosen-rfcefdp-update-2026-01 - RFC Series Responsibility 
Change   

Colin Perkins requested the IRSG send feedback to the program on the 
documents.
          
* Any Other Business

Colin Perkins said the IAB is forming a search committee for a new ISE 
(as Adrian is stepping down) and if anyone was interested in serving 
on the search committee to talk to Mirja.

Spencer Dawkins noted the IRTF has more flexibility in what it 
publishes.

Mirja Kuehlewind noted that the IAB wants more diverse opinions, so 
are asking people from all the streams to join the search committee.

Dave Oran mentioned he had a document that went through the ISE 
because it was worth publishing, but didn't fit in an IRTF group. He 
added people brought research papers to the ISE, and it would be 
useful for the next ISE to have the experience to be cognizant of red 
flags.

Colin Perkins said he would serve on the search committee for the 
IRSG.
 
* Next meeting: November 30, 2021 at 15:00 UTC