---
title: 2022-11-29
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-08T21:10:20.394Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-08T21:10:15.994Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-11-29

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the November 29, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

## Administrivia
### Roll Call
PRESENT:

Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Stephen Farrell (At-large Member)
Ari Keränen (T2TRG Chair)
Wojciech Kozlowski (QIRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (DINRG and ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)


## IRSG Action Items

> IN PROGRESS
> 
>    * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
>    * All IRSG Members to look at the IRTF Wiki and evaluate the information contained. Is it worth moving to a new wiki (from Trac to Wikijs), move to GitHub, archive some other way, or not keep. https://trac.ietf.org/trac/irtf/wiki

## IRTF Document Status
### Waiting for IRTF Chair:

draft-irtf-pearg-censorship-06
draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties-06
draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge-07
draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv-01

### Awaiting IRSG Reviews:

NONE

### In IRSG Review:

   * draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-16 - Review Complete (Brian Trammell and Jane Coffin) - revision 11/10/2022 Ready for Final Poll
   * draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping-07 - Review Complete (Chris Wood) - revision 10/16/2022 – Waiting for another document
   * draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute-07 - Review Complete (Chris Wood) - revision 10/16/2022 Waiting for another document 
   * draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats-03 - Review Complete (Dave Oran) - Revised I-D Needed - NOTE: DOCUMENT EXPIRED
   * draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys-04 - Review Complete (Dirk Kutscher) - revision 11/17/2022 
        - Ready for Final Poll

### In IRSG Poll:

(None)

### In IESG Review:

   * draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf-15 - IESG Conflict Review completed – Ready to move forward.
   * draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-10 - IESG Conflict Review completed::Revised I-D Needed
   * draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-11 - IESG Conflict Review completed::Revised I-D Needed

### Sent to the RFC Editor:

  *  draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-26 - Holding for references
   * draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-16
  *  draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo-13
   * draft-irtf-qirg-principles-11

## Research Groups Status Updates
### ICCRG rechartering (updated charter)

Colin asked if there were any comments on the current proposed revision. There were none.

### Other Research Group Updates

Dirk Kutscher said there was a recharter discussion at IETF 115 for DINRG. The current charter was too broad. The new charter focuses on internet centralization. 

Colin asked if the group would discuss the architectural developments rather than the protocol work. Dirk agreed. He said that the group had discussed the change in focus with the IAB and the response was positive.

Colin agreed it sounded like a good direction for the group.  The goal is to revise the charter in the new year.

## IETF 115 hot topics
### Proposed research groups on Usable Formal Methods (UFMRG) (draft charter) and Research and Analysis of Standard-Setting Processes Research Group (RASPRG)

Colin said there were two side meetings on the proposed RGs for UFM and RASP at the London IETF. One organized by Colin and Chris Wood, and the other organized by Ignacio and Niels. There is a draft charter for UFM and will do a last call on the formation of the proposed UFM group. 

#### Usable Formal Methods (draft charter discussion)

Stephen Farrell agreed it was a good idea, however he noted that the academics may not stay long term.

Carsten Bormann stated some concerns about the group becoming a formal verification vehicle rather than a research group.

Colin agreed. Chris Wood was working on the charter and he hopes to have the revised text soon.

#### Proposed RG on Research and Analysis of Standard-Setting Processes (draft charter discussion)

Colin said this work came from an IAB Workshop on datamining the IETF to look at the way standards are built. There was a side meeting at IETF 115. He said he didn’t think the charter text was mature, and would appreciate feedback.

Dave Oran asked if the RG would be scoped narrow enough, as the charter language was broad and included the IEEE and other SDOs.

Colin said the RG would be focused mainly on the IETF. There was a short discussion on the scope of the proposed group and what the charter text implied. 

Dirk Kutscher said he had some doubts about this becoming a research group. He said it was fine for people to mine the datatracker to gain insight, but he wasn’t convinced there was enough there to be an ongoing group.

Stephen Farrell said he wasn’t sure there would be critical mass for this kind of work. If the RG was limited to the IETF it may be too introspective.

Dave said he would send some comments. Dirk said he was unsure if this was useful work.

Colin said these comments were useful.

## Anything else?

Dave Oran said there was a fairly large crowd at the side meeting on the metaverse at IETF 115. He said the organizers set up a shared document for hot topics.

Colin asked if the IRTF should be thinking of forming a research group.

Dave said he thought that would be premature. There were a couple of interesting talks, but he was unsure if it was sustainable. He said raising the visibility to the work wouldn’t be a bad choice. 

## IRTF RG to be reviewed by the IAB for IETF 116

Colin said it wasn’t clear which group should be reviewed with the IAB for IETF 116. The groups that have not had a review in a while are ICCRG, GAIA, and T2TRG. ICCRG is in the midst of a recharter discussion, so it may not be the right time for them.

Carsten Bormann said T2TRG is planning a face-to-face meeting in Prague at IETF 118, and it might be better to have the group’s IAB review at that meeting.

Colin said he would talk to the chairs of GAIA.

## Moving the IRTF Wiki from Trac to Wikijs

Colin reminded the IRSG that the IETF is moving the wikis, and he wasn’t sure how much of the IRTF wiki was worth migrating. All IRSG should take a look at the materials and evaluate if it needs to move. 

## Diversity travel grants 116

Colin said this is in progress, and he expected the IRTF could offer three or four grants for IETF 116.
