---
title: 2022-06-28
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-08T23:56:34.500Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-08T23:56:30.355Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-06-28

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the June 28, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

- Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
- Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair 
- Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
- Mat Ford, At-Large Member
- Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
- Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
- Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
- Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
- Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
- Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
- Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
- Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair

## Action Item Review
> DONE
> 
> * Dave Oran to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats for IRSG Review
>  
> IN PROGRESS
> 
> * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> * Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.
> 

## IRTF Document Status
### With RFC Editor

- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (MISSREF)
- draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (RFC-EDITOR)
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions (EDIT)

### In IESG Conflict Review
  
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (on IESG Agenda to find an IESG Reviewer for RFC 5742 Review)
 
### In IRSG Final Poll

 - draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo (2 Yes, 3 No Objection, 1 recuse - Poll Due 2022-06-20)
 - draft-irtf-qirg-principles (1 Yes - Poll Due 2022-06-29)
 - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history (3 Yes - Poll Due 2022-06-29)
 - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation (2 Yes, 3 No Objection - Poll Due 2022-06-29)

  
### In IRSG Reviews
  
 - draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (review complete June 22. Document EXPIRED) Needs Update
 - draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf (Needs Reviewer: Mallory) 


 ### In IRTF Chair Review
 
- draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines
  
## Research Groups Status

Colin said he could chair the IRTFOpen meeting remotely, but I would like a person who will be in the room. 

Dave Oran volunteered to be the chair delegate in the room at IETF 114.

Lixia Zhang said that DINRG would meet and there was a progress report from the workshop.

Colin said he would be interested in the report. He asked if Lixia had seen the document from MNOT.

Dave Oran said that there has been a lot of discussion on the arch-discuss list on MNOT’s draft.

Lixia said MNOT might be interested in attending the DINRG meeting.

Marie-José Montpetit said the teris document has had two RG last calls, and she was looking for what the next steps were.

Colin said they should put in a shepherd writeup for the document, put it in the state "Waiting for IRTF Chair" and let him know.

## Chaperones for ANRP winners

Colin said both ANRP winners would be in person at IETF 114. He was hoping someone would be on hand to greet them at the Welcome Reception and make sure they are invited to the IRSG Dinner.

Mallory Knodel said she would look for them, but she may not make the meeting before Monday, she wasn’t sure.

## Chaperones for travel grant awardees (there are currently six awardees)

Colin said he thought Reese (Enghardt) met with the ANRW and Travel grant awardees. Colin would like for someone on the IRSG to look for them and say hello to them. Colin would also ask Reese if they were going to be at IETF 114 in person.

Allison Mankin asked if it was possible to get social event tickets for the ANRP winners. 

Colin said that yes, they had tickets. Marie-José Montpetit said she would be happy to help if she was able to be on site.

Colin said he appreciated the offers and will followup.

##  IRTF at IETF 114 discussion 
(Final Agenda to be published Friday, July 1. Current Preliminary Agenda: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/agenda/)

-  Current RGs that requested time at IETF 114: CFRG, COINRG, DINRG, GAIA, HRPC, ICNRG, MAPRG, NMRG, PANRG, PEARG,

Colin said there were far more agenda slots requested that there were available, and he hopes all significant conflicts were in the datatracker. 

Lixia Zhang asked about side meeting rooms being available before the meeting time, so if needed they could use informal meeting time.

Colin mentioned the usual Covid issues, and make it clear that people could attend remotely.

### IRSG dinner at IETF 114

The IRSG dinner is scheduled for Thursday evening after sessions. There is a brewery not too far from the venue but they need a final headcount soon.

Colin said whoever was on site to pay for the dinner should talk to Alexa (Morris, IETF Secretariat) to get reimbursed. 





