---
title: 2022-04-26
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-03T19:34:11.426Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-03T19:34:11.426Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-04-26
*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the April 26, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

- Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
- Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
- Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
- Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair

Regrets:
 
Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair 
Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
Mat Ford, At-Large Member
Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair    
Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair 
Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair

Guests:

- Tijay Chung
- Marwan Fayed


1. Action Item Review
DONE

* Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion for 
IRSG Review
* Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions for 
IRSG Review
* Amy Vezza to work with Cindy Morgan and the NMRG Chairs to find a 
date for NMRG to be reviewed with the IAB after IETF 113. (Scheduled 
for June 1, 2022)

IN PROGRESS

* Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
* Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF 
counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.

NEW

* Colin Perkins to begin email thread on possible email list 
moderation.


2. IRTF Document Status
2.1 With RFC Editor
o draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (MISSREF)
 
2.2 In IESG Conflict Review
o draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion 

The document is on the May 05, 2022 IESG Agenda to name an AD as the 
RFC 5742 reviewer.

o draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs (reviewer: Francesca Palombini)
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g 

IESG Conflict Review complete. 

2.3 In IRSG Final Poll

o draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification (2 Yes, 8 no objection, 1 
recuse (Lixia Zhang))
o draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions (2 Yes, 1 no objection) - 
poll closes April 26

2.4 In IRSG Reviews
o draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo (Review complete. Document revised April 
25.)
o draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (Reviewer: Stephen Farrell)

2.5 In IRTF Chair Review
o draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats
o draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines

3. Research Groups Status

The NMRG review with the IAB is scheduled for June 1, 2022. Amy Vezza 
will add the IAB meeting details to the IRSG Calendar.

4. ANRW Update - Tijay Chung and Marwan Fayed

Marwan Fayed and Tijay Chung reported that they had twenty program 
committee members. Marwan said there was a lot of competition from 
other events, and finding program committee members was difficult. He 
thought the current waning of the pandemic made a lot more conflicts 
than there would be in a normal year. 

Colin Perkins said he would talk to Greg Wood about wider advertising 
for the ANRW. He said there was a teleconference about sponsorship for 
ANRW Travel Grants scheduled.

* RSAB Representative from IRSG (volunteers needed)

Colin Perkins said the RSAB advisory board would have a member from 
each publication stream. The IETF and IAB have decided to appoint the 
chair to be their representatives at least for the first year. Colin 
said he is willing to be the IRTF stream representative as well. 

Stephen Farrell agreed.

Colin noted there was likely to be a call for feedback on the possible 
chairs for the RSWG.

Colin Perkins will serve on the RSAB as the representative for the 
IRTF stream.

* Expanding the IRSG At-Large Membership

Colin Perkins said it had been a long time since the at-large 
membership of the IRSG had been reviewed. He would like suggestions 
from the IRSG on possible members in general, and also specifically in 
the security area. 

Stephen Farrell suggested asking the Security Area Directors for 
suggestions, perhaps also asking former Security ADs. 

Lixia Zhang agreed more Security experts would be good. 

Colin stated any suggestions would be welcome.

* Moderator (SAA) for IRTF lists (RG lists, discussion list, etc.)

Colin Perkins stated that there was some heated exchanges on one of the 
research group lists. He said the chairs of a group serve as the 
Sergeant-at-Arms (SAA) for the group, but sometimes in the discussion 
it was difficult for the chairs to remain impartial. Colin asked if it 
would be useful to find some volunteers to assist the chairs or serve 
as SAA for the lists.

Stephen Farrell said by necessity the person serving as a SAA should 
have insider knowledge on the topics and the people taking part in the 
discussion. Finding someone completely neutral may not be the best 
choice.

Lixia Zhang agreed.

Colin said the goal is useful discussion on the lists. Perhaps he 
could work on finding someone to give some advice on mailing list 
moderation.

Stephen suggested a discussion topic on difficult mailing list 
discussions for a future IRSG meeting. He suggested the EMODIR or 
OMBUDSTEAM may have some suggestions. He said it could also happen 
over lunch at a future in-person IETF.

* IRTF at IETF 113
**Any concerns that came out of the meetings at 113
 
Stephen Farrell said he was in-person at IETF 113 and the hybrid parts 
of the meeting worked well. He said the rooms were pretty empty, so he 
suggested a future experiment may be to hold meetings by topic, 
instead of based on research group.

Lixia Zhang said she hoped IETF 114 would have more in-person 
attendance. She further stated that half the usual attendance would be 
better for the work than the less than a quarter in-person attendance 
at IETF 113.

Colin Perkins agreed. He said there were technical sessions on a 
number of interesting topics including a side meeting on SCION, and a 
lot of semantic routing discussions.

Stephen Farrell asked about the semantic routing topic and asked about 
if there were papers on the topic at other conferences.
 
Colin said he had not seen much, but it seemed to be the same group of 
people. He added there was some interesting research happening, but 
there were already research groups working on related topics.

Lixia said she saw a single vendor interested in the work. She said it 
may be an application problem, not a routing problem.
Colin and Stephen agreed.

* Potential Research Group on Web3 Infrastructure

Colin Perkins said he discussed a possible research group on Web3 
Infrastructure with proponents of the idea. He said he hoped to have a 
proposal before IETF 114. Their focus seems to be scoped to a specific 
part of the whole, and Colin would be looking for feedback on the 
proposal when it comes in.

Lixia Zhang asked if there was a possible new research group on the 
topic. She also said she had seen movement towards Web3, but wasn't 
sure if there was anything for the IETF or IRTF there.

Colin said it was possible a research group would be proposed to 
discuss possible work for the IRTF. 