---
title: 2022-10-25
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-09T02:01:09.599Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-09T01:50:38.503Z
---

# IRSG Teleconfernece 2022-10-25

PRESENT

Carsten Bormann
Stephen Farrell
Dirk Kutscher
Colin Perkins
Dave Oran
Melinda Shore
Brian Trammell

## Administrivia 
>  Action Item Review
> 
> DONE
> 
> * Mallory Knodel to review draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf for IRSG Review
> * Brian Trammell and Jane Coffin to review draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines for IRSG Review.
> * Colin Perkins to send the call for nominations for the ANRP 2023
> * Dirk Kutscher to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys for the IRSG Review
> 
> IN PROGRESS
> 
> * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> 
> NEW
> 
> * All IRSG Members to look at the IRTF Wiki and evaluate the information contained. Is it worth moving to a new wiki (from Trac to Wikijs), move to GitHub, archive some other way, or not keep. https://trac.ietf.org/trac/irtf/wiki

## IRTF Document Status
### With RFC Editor

- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (MISSREF)
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification (AUTH48)
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions (AUTH48-DONE)
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-qirg-principles (EDIT)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (MISSREF)

### In IESG Conflict Review

 - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history (conflict review approved by IESG - waiting on revision)
 - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation (conflict review approved by IESG - waiting on revision)
 - draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf (conflict review approved by the IESG on October 24)

### In IRSG Final Poll

NONE

### In IRSG Reviews

 - draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (review complete June 22. Document EXPIRED. Needs revison - Reviewer: Dave Oran)
 - draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines (reviews complete. Brian Trammell and Jane Coffin each did a review - revision addresses Jane's comments, but not Brian's. Revision needed as of October 5.) 
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys (review complete October 15. Needs revision based on review. Reviewer: Dirk Kutscher) 
 
### In IRTF Chair Review

- draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv
- draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties

## Research Groups Status
### IRTF RG to be reviewed with the IAB for IETF 115

Colin suggested the HRPC RG recharter to discuss with the IAB. The HRPC chairs will coordinate with Cindy Morgan (IETF Secretariat) on the date and time for the review.


## Moving the IRTF Wiki from Trac to Wikijs

Amy said the IETF is moving all the IETF wikis off trac and to Wikijs. 

## ANRP for 2023 -  Nominations due November 18

Colin reminded the group nominations close in November.

## IRSG Dinner in London
- Wednesday after the plenary. Please fill out the poll if you will be onsite.


