---
title: 2022-01-25
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-03T19:30:57.690Z
tags: irtf
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-03T19:30:52.769Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-01-25
Action Item: Allison Mankin and Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs

Action Item: Stephen Farrell to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion for IRSG Review

Action Item: Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions for IRSG Review


*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the January 25, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

-   Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
-   Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
-   Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
-   Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
-   Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
-   Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
-   Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
-   Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
-   Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
-   Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
-   Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
-   Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair 
-   Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
-   Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
-   Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat

Regrets:

   Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair
   Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
   Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
   Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
   Mat Ford, At-Large Member
   Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
   Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
   Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
   Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
   Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
   Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
   Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
   Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
   Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
   Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair    
   Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
   Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
   Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
   Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
   Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair
   Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair


2. Action Item Review

DONE
* Jeffrey He to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification for IRSG Review.
* The IRSG to review the IRTF Notewell slides and suggest changes if necessary 
[https://irtf.org/policies/note-well.html].
* Marie-José Montpetit to review draft-irtf-qirg-principles for IRSG Review.

IN PROGRESS
* Lars Eggert to re-review draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte for IRSG Review.
* Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
* Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.
* Brian Trammell, Jane Coffin, and Allison Mankin to review Diversity Travel grant submissions 
in January 2022. Reese Enghardt will chair the review panel.
* All respond to Final Poll for draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs 
* PEARG Chairs to check on revisions of draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation and draft-irtf-
pearg-numeric-ids-history

NEW

* Allison Mankin and Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs
* Stephen Farrell to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion for IRSG Review
* Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions for IRSG Review


TRACKED DOCUMENTS
* IRTF Document Status
 * In RFC Editor Queue
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke (sent to RFC Editor Nov. 11 moved to AUTH48 Jan. 6)

 * In IESG Conflict Review
   - draft-irtf-panrg-questions (cleared IESG Review; needs revision)
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-07 (needs IESG shepherd for RFC 5742 review)
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-25 (needs IESG shepherd for RFC 5742 review)

 * In IRSG Final Poll
   - draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs (1 yes, 2 no-ob)

 * In IRSG Reviews
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (reviewer: Lars Eggert)
   - draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion (reviewer: Stephen Farrell)
   - draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions-06 (Reviewer: Melinda Shore) 


 * In IRTF Chair Review
   - draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve
   - draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo 
   - draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats-03

 * Waiting on Revision for Next Step
   - draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-10 (needs revision: next step IRTF Chair Review)
   - draft-irtf-panrg-questions-11 (next step: Send to RFC Editor)
   - draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification-05 (IRSG Review complete next step: Revision needed; 
then final poll)
   - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 (EXPIRED - needs revision; IRSG Review complete. 
next step: Revision needed; then final poll)
   - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-08 (EXPIRED - needs revision; IRSG Review complete. next 
step: Revision needed; then final poll)
   - draft-irtf-qirg-principles-08 (NEEDS REVISION revised Dec 15, 2021; next step: final poll)
 
* Research Groups Status
** ICNRG IAB Review recap

Colin Perkins said the review went very well with the IAB. He noted that keeping groups 
focused on research work and keeping the energy up is difficult during the pandemic. 

Dave Oran agreed and offered to send the slides they created for the review to the IRSG. 

** NMRG Interim

Laurent Ciavaglia reported that the interim meeting for NMRG went very well. He noted there 
was some good collaboration happening and he expects to see some progression to the work.

** COINRG Interim

Colin Perkins noted that the COINRG will have an interim meeting in early February and 
encouraged IRSG members to attend if they could [February 10, 2022 15:00-17:00 UTC].

* Other activities 
** Update on diversity travel grant process

Colin Perkins said they had two applications and were hoping for more before the deadline. 

** ANRP Results

Colin Perkins said they received 59 nominations and the selection committee chose seven. The 
announcement of the winners has been sent.

Colin invited IRSG members who would like to be involved in next year's selection to contact 
him. 

* REMINDER: RFCEFDP Documents Community are out for Review
** https://datatracker.ietf.org/program/rfcefdp/documents/

Colin Perkins asked for IRSG members to review this document, because it's a major change 
from the way the RFC Series is managed today.

* IETF 113 discussion on hybrid meetings

The IRSG discussed IETF 113's hybrid status and what a hybrid meeting may look like. Dave 
Oran asked what happens if both chairs were remote. Lars Eggert said that MeetEcho would 
have some additional features to allow for remote chairs, but it would be a good idea if chairs 
had a person they could rely on in the room to help manage the meeting. 

Colin Perkins suggested the IRSG poll their groups informally to see who might travel to Vienna 
for the meeting. He also cautioned that one group or the other might feel excluded, so 
decisions should be followed up on the mailing list to include everyone. He also stated that no 
one should feel pressured to travel to Vienna if they were not comfortable doing so.

* Any Other Business

NONE

* Next meeting: February 22, 2022 at 15:00 UTC