---
title: 2022-05-31
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-08T23:13:55.628Z
tags: irtf
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-07T15:27:10.654Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-05-31

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the May 31, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

- Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
- Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
- Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
- Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
- Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
- Mat Ford, At-Large Member
- Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
- Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
- Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
- Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
- Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
- Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat

## Action Item Review
> DONE
> 
> * Colin Perkins to begin email thread on possible email list moderation.
> 
> IN PROGRESS
> 
> * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> * Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.

## IRTF Document Status
### With RFC Editor
o draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (MISSREF)
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (EDIT)

### In IESG Conflict Review
o draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion (Cleared IESG Conflict review)
o draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs (Cleared IESG Conflict Review – ready to be sent to the RFC Editor)
o draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification 

The document is on the IESG Telechat agenda to assign an IESG reviewer at June 2 telechat.

o draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions 

The document is on the IESG Telechat agenda agenda to assign an IESG reviewer at June 2 telechat.

### In IRSG Final Poll
o draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (2 yes, 4 no objections, 1 recuse)

The IRSG poll has closed, needs revision.

### In IRSG Reviews
o draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo (Review complete. Document revised April 25.)
o draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (Needs IRSG Reviewer)

Dave Oran said he could review the document.

### In IRTF Chair Review

o draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines 
o draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf (New revision uploaded May 26)

## Research Group Status
Colin Perkins reminded the IRSG that the NMRG would be reviewed by the IAB on June 1, 2022. All IRSG were welcome to attend the IAB meeting. 

Laurent Ciavaglia said that he and Jérôme were finalizing the slides in preparation for the meeting.

Spencer Dawkins said that the IAB reviews were useful, and he encouraged any of the IRSG that were available to attend the virtual meeting. 
Mirja Kühlewind agreed, and encouraged other research group chairs attend the open IAB meeting.

Colin also reminded the IRSG that the PANRG would have an interim meeting on June 1, 2022, and the topic was SCION Architecture. He encouraged any IRSG members to attend. 

Dave Oran said there was new research-like work to follow on from the base SCION work.

Mirja agreed, and said there was possible extension work to be done on existing protocols. 

Colin agreed it was worth looking at to see if the work would come in as a whole or cherry-picked for the most interesting research bits. He encouraged attendance at the interim.

Mirja indicated that she would attend.
## Digital Twin work in NMRG and T2TRG
Colin said the NMRG has had discussions about digital twins. And making sure the two groups should be coordinating together.
Jerome François said they have discussed it. There are differences with the way the groups are approaching the subject. Carsten has talked to the NMRG about T2TRG approach. He was sure the groups could coordinate.
Colin said he thinks it makes sense to have the management in NMRG and the discussion in T2TRG.
Stephen Farrell asked if it was odd to have it discussed in these groups. 
Ari Keränen said T2TRG is about objects. And then added he thought all the research groups may have a say, but the term may be used too widely.
Laurent Ciavaglia said that NMRG was researching what might be a digital twin and a tool for simulation. For example a mobile network how far can it model the real world? It is pushing the boundaries to use a digital win tech for optimal network. There are research challenges here, which he though would be good for the IRTF. 
Colin said it seemed reasonable to see how it develops.

Carsten said that having a digital twin was an item that consolidates the information you can get from the digital twin. When there is too much data, something like a digital twin can be useful. 

## Travel Grants for IETF 114 and ANRW

Colin Perkins said the travel grant process for the ANRW and IETF 114 had been announced and the applications are due by June 20, 2022. He indicated they had a good group to review the applications but would welcome a couple more. 

Melinda Shore volunteered to join the travel grant review group.

## IRTF at IETF 114 

Amy Vezza reminded the IRSG that the session requests for IETF 114 close on June 10. 

Colin Perkins said that while onsite attendance would be higher that onsite attendance at IETF 113, he wanted to make sure the IRSG kept effective strategies for running a hybrid meeting in mind when requesting time on the agenda.

## REMINDER - Recommend more IRSG At-Large members

Colin said he has received some suggestions and he would follow up. 

## AOB

Colin said the ANRW is scheduled for the July meeting. He mentioned that the submissions seem a little light for this workshop. Any suggestions for panels or invited talks would be accepted. 

Mirja Kühlewind asked if the workshop would be all on one day.
Colin said yes, that it may not fill a whole day.

Mirja noted that applied research is not well represented in other conferences.

Dave Oran said he thought submissions were down across the board for all conferences. He added that he thought drawing conclusions from the low submissions would be premature.

Colin agreed, it may be the pandemic.

There was a short discussion on who expected to make it to Philadelphia in person. Colin reminded the group there is a budget for an IRSG Dinner.


