---
title: 2022-02-22
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-03T19:32:44.119Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-03T19:32:44.119Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2022-02-22
Action Item: Amy Vezza to work with Cindy Morgan and the NMRG Chairs 
to find a date for NMRG to be reviewed with the IAB after IETF 113.

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the February 22, 2022 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

-  Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
-  Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
-  Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
-  Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
-  Mat Ford, At-Large Member
-  Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
-  Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
-  Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
-  Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
-  Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
-  Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
-  Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
-  Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
-  Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
-  Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair

Regrets:

   Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair
   Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
   Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
   Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
   Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
   Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
   Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
   Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
   Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
   Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
   Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
   Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
   Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
   Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
   Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair    
   Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
   Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair 
   Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
   Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
   Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
   Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair

1.2 Bash the Agenda

1.3 Action Item Review

DONE

* All respond to Final Poll for draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs 
* Allison Mankin and Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-
ccn-reqs
* Lars Eggert to re-review draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g for IRSG 
Review. 
* Brian Trammell, Jane Coffin, and Allison Mankin to review Diversity 
Travel grant submissions in January 2022. Reese Enghardt will chair 
the review panel.
* PEARG Chairs to check on revisions of draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-
generation and draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history
* Spencer Dawkins to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion for 
IRSG Review

IN PROGRESS

* Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
* Colin Perkins to send update to IRTF Note well slides to IETF 
counsel, LLC, and IETF Trust.
* Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions for 
IRSG Review

2. IRTF Document Status
2.1 With RFC Editor
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke (AUTH48)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (MISSREF)
- draft-irtf-panrg-questions

2.2 In IESG Conflict Review
- draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations

The document was approved by the IESG at the February 17, 2022 IESG 
Teleconference. 

2.3 In IRSG Final Poll
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs (poll completed; revised draft needed)
- draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g (ready for IESG conflict review)

2.4 In IRSG Reviews
- draft-irtf-qirg-principles (IRSG review complete)

The document was updated recently. Marie-José Montpetit to re-review 
the changes made.

- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation 

Revisions to the document are being discussed in the research group. 

- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history (ready for IRSG final poll; 
Needs ballot)

The document will go forward with draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-
generation when there is resolution in the ongoing discussion.

- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification 

The document needs a revision.

- draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion (reviewer: Spencer)

Spencer Dawkins said the discussion regarding changes to the document 
are being discussed. 

- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo (reviewer: Jérôme François)
- draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions (reviewer: Melinda Shore)


2.5 In IRTF Chair Review
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve

Colin Perkins reported the authors are working on a revision.

- draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats
- draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines

The discussion for the document is active on the mailing list.


3. Research Groups Status
3.1 Choosing an IRTF RG to Review with the IAB after IETF 113 

NMRG was identified as a possible research group to review with the 
IAB as it was last reviewed at IETF 92 [March 2015].

The NMRG Chairs agreed to review the research group with the IAB after 
IETF 113.

3.2 COINRG Interim Meeting Updates

Marie-José Montpetit said there was discussion at the interim meeting 
on what appropriate use of a research group was. 

Dirk Kutscher said the research presentation on dataplane programming 
was interesting and he would be interested in more invited 
presentations.

Marie-José agreed, and noted she had a number of discussions with the 
researcher about what would be of interest to the research group.

Carsten Bormann mentioned he had spoken with a researcher and 
mentioned he may find more interested people in the IRTF. He suggested 
the IRSG network at other events to bring more interesting research 
topics to be presented at the IRTF.  

Colin Perkins agreed that broad advertisement would be useful.

4. How and Why to Contribute to the IRTF

Jeffrey He said he sent email to the IRSG about finding participants 
from researchers, engineers, and industry and how they fit within the 
IRTF. He said there were three related issues. One on the incentive 
for academics to participate in the IRTF, one on academic use in 
industry, and one on the function of the informational RFCs for the 
IRTF.

Jeffrey said when the COINRG invited academics to present their papers 
they were happy as it cost them very little. Most of them had slides 
already prepared they could reuse. However, those participants were 
mostly transitory. The second group were academics looking for real 
issues in the industry they could look at and help solve. This was 
more promising for long-term work in the IRTF. These may transition to 
IETF work at some point in the future, but had to start in research. 

Lixia Zhang said her research group is not related to her day job. 

Colin Perkins said that presenters could come and present on any 
interesting work, it did not matter if it was "day job" related.

Lixia agreed. She said presenting at the IRTF was not about citations 
for her. It was about what work would be useful and how the research 
group could help move it forward.

Melinda Shore said she had a different problem. She had lots of people 
from industry and NGOs to participate, it was more difficult to find 
academics.

Dirk Kutscher agreed. He said differentiating between groups was a 
distraction. He was more interested in continuous work on important 
topics. He also did not want to see any kind of checklist that work 
would be measured against. He believed if people were given a 
checklist they would try to fulfil the list and not just do the work.

Colin Perkins said a lot of groups co-locate with the IETF that may 
look like the IETF but were not. IRTF topics are not necessarily IETF 
topics. The IRTF does not constrain problems to drive a specification 
forward like the IETF does. He wants to encourage a shift in the 
mindset toward more research.

Dirk agreed. He said there was no one best way to run a meeting. 
Sometimes there were inspiring research papers, and sometimes there 
was more of a deep dive discussion.

Colin noted some research was more mature and some topics were very 
very new. 

Allison Mankin said the role of the IRTF was in service to the work, 
and research groups are contiguous to the IETF. Lots of IRTF work 
matures and moves to the IETF. They are linked, not separate. 

Colin agreed. He said the benefit of the IRTF is that it sits next to 
the IETF. He wants to make sure the IRTF continues to be rooted in the 
research.

Marie-José Montpetit said the past couple of years has been a 
challenge to get work done in academia and industry. She said there 
would always be a balance between what is research, and where product 
starts. The IRTF is about the research.

Colin said that it was important to keep in mind the difference 
between research and IETF Standards work, and RG Chairs can say no to 
topics that don't advance the research objective. He reminded the IRSG 
that there were many ways to run meetings, and not to feel constrained 
by the IETF Meeting cadence. He encouraged flexibility.

Allison said they once had a very productive meeting on the beach. 
[laughter]

5. Other activities 
5.1 ANRW-SC Update (ANRW Chairs chosen, MOU Signed on IETF side)

Colin Perkins said the chairs for the ANRW will be Tijay Chung from 
Virginia Tech and Marwan Fayed from Cloudflare. The Call for Papers 
would be available soon.

5.2 AUTH48 Public Mail Archives 

Colin Perkins said the proposal for a public email archive is being 
discussed. The proposal is that the RFC Editor would add the archive 
email in CC to increase the transparency of what changes are made in 
the AUTH48 process. He asked if the IRSG had objections to adding the 
IRTF Stream to the proposed AUTH48 public email archive.

Alexey Melnikov had no objection and said it would be good to be 
transparent on changes made in the process.

Spencer Dawkins agreed. He added some mail threads in the AUTH48 
exchange with the RFC Editor were more valuable than others, as 
discussions could easily go off topic.

Colin agreed, and said that if the discussion on the mail wandered off 
topic the IRSG could remind authors the purpose of AUTH48.

5.3 Update on diversity travel grant 

Three IRTF Travel Grants have been awarded; with IETF Secretariat 
working with the recipients. One awardee from Pakistan, one from 
Brazil, one from Chile. Reese Enghardt will be the point of contact at 
IETF 113.

5.4 IRTF at IETF 113 discussion
 *** Current RGs that requested time at IETF 113: CFRG, COINRG, HRPC, 
ICNRG, IRTFOPEN, MAPRGF, NMRG, PANRG, PEARG, QIRG

Marie-José Montpetit said none of the chairs for her Research Groups 
would be in Vienna, so they have recruited people to monitor the room 
during the meeting.

Colin Perkins reminded the IRSG that Meetecho had been extended to 
support remote chairing of sessions. Colin said the two ANRP talks 
would take place in IRTFOpen, both to be presented remotely. He also 
reminded chairs to use the IRTF version of the Note Well slides, and 
to highlight the IETF Code of Conduct.