---
title: IRSG Teleconference October 24, 2023
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-10-27T13:31:47.505Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-10-25T16:04:38.298Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference October 24, 2023
DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the October 24, 2023 IRSG Teleconference
Reported by: Jenny Bui, IETF Secretariat

## MINUTES

## Attendance 
Jenny Bui (Secretariat)
Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair))
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (Secretariat)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Niels ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)

## Administrivia
o Welcome Reese Enghardt and Vidhi Goel who are joining Simone Ferlin as new co-chairs of ICCRG

## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
o Colin Perkins to submit the IRTF Code of Conduct as an Internet-Draft
#### IN PROGRESS:
o Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds 


#### NEW: 
 None
## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue 
o draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering
o draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
o draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping
o draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute
o draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
o draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf

### In IRSG Final Poll
 None
### In IESG Conflict Review
o draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases
o draft-irtf-cfrg-frost
### In IRSG Reviews
 None
### In IRTF Chair Review 
o draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines 
o draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv
o draft-irtf-hrpc-association

## Discussion Topics
### HRPC Charter follow-up

Colin mentions that the revision to the charter has been underway for some time now and is on the IAB agenda tomorrow. 
There has been some mailing list discussion, and Lars suggested that it was a bit broad and if we could possibly try and narrow the policy work and rather than focus on public interest in general, maybe focus on public interest policy that aims to strengthen and recongize human rights. 

Brian agrees with what Colin said about what Lars suggested. The document stayed very close to the recongized human rights and there's good framework for understanding what that is then the public interest policy comes out of nowhere. 

Colin asks if there's any concrete suggestions on how to fix the charter? 

Brian replied that 1) either define what the public policy engagement with respect to the Internet and the framework of human rights means to the research group. Or stick the recognized framework on human rights. 

Ignacio commented that maybe one way to go would be to clarify whether the focus is on how policy relates to human rights or how human rights relate to policy. 

Colin commented that is helpful. To focus on public policy in general, is it on human rights as they relate to public policy, or is it on public policy as it relates to human rights? 

Colin asks if Neils have any comments as he is one of people who is heavily involved in that group. 

Niels comments that we've seen interst in policy issues in different RGs, and seen similiar discussions in DINRG. We also need to find a way in which it helps the research. Currently, Neils doesn't see how it would hamper the research, but people thinks it does hamper or has some function creep. 

Colin agrees that HRPC has been bringing in people from different communities. There's a bit of concern that the charter is getting too board.

Niels does not disagree. 

Neils suggests that the message that Colin can give tomorrow at the IAB call is that it's just a small course change, and not a huge deviation. 

Colin agrees that that was his impression too. That it is fundamentally on the right track, just making sure everyone is comfortable. Not expecting to see a significant rewrite, just some tweaks

### draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines

Colin explained that draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines is ready to progress, and is now asking for comments.

Carsten has reviewed the document a long time ago.

Colin asks if the group can review the document as he would like to get this document to the IESG for conflict review before the Prague meeting. 

### Code of Conduct 

Colin mentions that a number of IRSG members have made comments before submission and changes were made.

Colin added a section on ethical considerations.

Colin encourages everyone to read the document and make comments, also, requests for those on the call to send to their research groups to review.

Niels thought the document looks good.
### Prep for 118 
 #### Hot topics: 
   Colin asks if there are any hot topics he should be aware of during the IETF 118 meeting so he knows which sessions to attend. 
     
   Brian brought up in PANRG, there will be a discussion about the SCION architecture, and what could be done in the IETF or within PANRG. The session will on Monday afternoon. 
     
   Colin asks if this is something worth bringing up to the IESG in case they want to standardize it? 
     
   Brian replied, maybe since there's a little on operations. Some feedback received from the IAB was that they don't have an operations model that makes sense. There will be discussion on scope and charter for PANRG, and what might be in scope and on charter for existing or new working groups. 
     
   Colin asks if theres a particular area that should attend the session to help move things along quicker. 
     
   Brian replied probably security, routing, and non-DNS part of Internet. 
     
   Colin replied that he will raise that in the pre-meeting so the IESG is aware. 
     
     
 #### IRSG Dinner:
 http://www.siarestaurant.cz/ 
    
   Jenny mentions that the IRSG dinner will be held at Sia. 

   Colin said that it is an Asian fusion restaurant, and asks everyone to please fill out the Doodle poll so we can get a head count. Also, to let himself or Jenny know if you are vegetarian or have any dietary restrictions. 

## AOB

#### ANRP:
Colin asks everyone to consider nominating papers for ANRP.

#### IRTF website: 
Colin asks everyone to report any issues that anyone spots on the IRTF website.

