---
title: 2023-09-26
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-09-27T22:31:45.977Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-09-26T20:24:03.598Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 26 September 2023

DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the September 26, 2023 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Jenny Bui, IETF Secretariat

MINUTES
---------------------------------
## 1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

PRESENT

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Jenny Bui (Secretariat)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Spencer Dawkins (At-Large Member)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (Secretariat)
Dirk Kutscher (DINRG and ICNRG Chair)
Allison Mankin (At-Large Member)
David Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Melinda Shore (At-Large Member)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)

## Administrivia
Colin welcomed Jenny Bui to her first IRSG meeting. She will be taking over a number of responsibilities from Amy Vezza, who is taking a step back. 


## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
- Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
- Mallory Knodel and Marie-Jose Montpetit will review draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases for IRSG Review

#### IN PROGRESS:
- Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds
- Colin Perkins to submit the IRTF Code of Conduct as an Internet-Draft

#### NEW: 
 NONE
 
## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue 
- draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448
- draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping
- draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute
- draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures 
- draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
- draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf
    - Holding for references
- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2

### In IRSG Final Poll
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv
  - In IRSG Final Poll, due September 15, 2023 - has one yes; one no-ob)
- draft-irtf-qirg-quantum-internet-use-cases 
	- In IRSG Final Poll, due October 13, 2023 
### In IESG Conflict Review
- draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering
    - Revised I-D Needed
- draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
### In IRSG Reviews
NONE

### In IRTF Chair Review 
- draft-irtf-hrpc-association
    - Revised I-D Needed

## Code of Conduct 
- https://github.com/irtf-chair/code-of-coduct

Colin needs assistance making hyperlinks work.

Colin walked us through recent changes that he's made in GitHub. There have been additional comments made, that haven't been addressed yet. 

The security considerations section has been completely re-written, and Colin pointed out that this is a required section in Internet-Drafts. 

Dirk suggested splitting the code of conduct into two parts - the code itself, and how we want research groups to work. 

Carsten states that the conduct part is necessary for everyone in the research group to enable this behavior.

Colin asked if the document went too far ("too prescriptive"), and Carsten said it might not go far enough.

Colin asked if Carsten had suggestion on how to phrase that.

Carsten said no.

Ignacio asked if there were statements about the way we have discussions mixed with statements about the kinds of things we discuss.

Colin mentions that he will remove the second paragraph (of Security Considerations).

Jane asks are there overarching documents this statement should point to? For example, the IAB document on the role of the IRTF.

The IRTF isn't limited to academic types - we might benefit from a description of "academic integrity". Colin has tried to summarize this, but none of the descriptions are short - including discussions of plagerism policies, etc. Perhaps just point at academicintegrity.org?

Colin said self plagiarism is something we haven't gotten to yet, only asking for feedback on the first paragraph. 

Carsten suggests to rephrase the first sentence to a factual sentence.

Spencer asked if there is anything IESG or IETF have said about plagiarism that we can point to? He is mostly remembering (without searching for them) IESG statements about authorship and acknowlegement. 

Spencer asked if adding an informative reference to RFC 7418 would be helpful, and Colin thought that it would be. 

Colin asked for people to send additional comments to the list, or enter them in GitHub.

## IRSG Dinner at 118 
- Doodle Poll for attendance: https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/eVQg6Bod
- List compiled by the Secretariat (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1F6nH5Tf94XCjF_LPffCEcN8VrN9qfbZbpLKUVWRxNZw/edit?usp=sharing)


## AOCB
- IETF 118 agenda planning

Colin mentioned that session request closed last Friday so if any group that has not requested a session yet, please reach out to Liz. 

Colin said he will miss the schedule deconflicting call next week, and asks the groups to please take a look at conflicts. Contact Colin and Liz if there are conflicts that groups really want to avoid. 

HRPC charter review will be on the IAB call October 25th and once that is confirmed, Colin will circulate the details. 