---
title: 2023-02-28
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-08T18:11:22.753Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-08T18:09:50.647Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2023-02-28

*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*DRAFT*
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the February 28, 2023 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call


PRESENT:
Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
Spencer Dawkins (at-large member)
Melinda Shore (at-large member)
Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
Allison Mankin (at-large member)
Neils ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Chris Wood (PEARG Chair)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Carsten Bormann (T2TRG)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Jonathan Hoyland (UFMRG Chair)
Sofia Celi (HRPC Chair)
Ari Keranen (T2TRG Chair)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Stansilav Smyshlaev (CFRG Chair)
Mallory Knodel (HRPC Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)

> * Action Items
>    * DONE
>      * Dave Oran to review draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties for IRSG Review
>      * Stephen Farrell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf for IRSG Review
>      * Jane Coffin to review draft-irtf-pearg-censorship for IRSG Review
>      
>    * IN PROGRESS
>      * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
>      * Allison Mankin to review draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge for IRSG Review 
>      * Carsten Bormann to review draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv for IRSG Review
>      * Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures for IRSG Review
> 
>    * NEW
>        * Brian Trammell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448 for IRSG Review


##  Document Status
  * Newly Published 

    - draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo as RFC 9344

  * In RFC Editor Queue

    - draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2 (RFC-EDITOR)
    - draft-irtf-qirg-principles (AUTH48-DONE)
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve (RFC-EDITOR) 
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf (EDIT)
    - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history (EDIT)
    - draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation (EDIT) 
    - draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys (EDIT)
    - draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (EDIT)

  * In IESG Conflict Review

    - draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf 
        - RFC 5742 review completed. On IESG Agenda Thursday, March 2, 2023 for discussion and approval.

  * In IRSG Final Poll

    - draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines 
        - The document was recently revised, waiting on document shepherd to clear it for the next step.


  * In IRSG Reviews

    - draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping (waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering)
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute (waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering)
    - draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge (Allison Mankin will review) 
    - draft-irtf-pearg-censorship (Review sent February 27)
    - draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv (Carsten Bormann will review)
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures (Melinda Shore will review)
    - draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448
        - Brian Trammell volunteered to review the document.


 * In IRTF Chair Review

    - NONE


## IRTF at IETF 116
### RG Hot Topics for 116

Stephen Farrell noted that there are new proposed research groups and people should show up for them (Research and Analysis of Standard-Setting Processes Proposed Research Group (rasprg) and Usable Formal Methods Proposed Research Group(ufmrg)).

The new working group in the IETF CAN [note: changing to CATS] may be related to research being done in COINRG, PANRG, and MAPRG.

THe IETF CONGRESS chartering effort is moving, they may have a side meeting at 116, which may be of interest.

### ANRP Winner Talks at IRTFOpen (currently scheduled Monday, 2023-03-27)

Colin Perkins said there are two good talks scheduled for IETF 116. 

  * Boris Pismenny for his work on novel NIC offloading architectures
     
  * Arthur Selle Jacobs for his work on evaluating machine learning for network security

### IRTF Research Group to Review with the IAB
  * DINRG will be reviewed with the IAB on Thursday morning, the IRSG is invited to attend.

### IRSG Dinner in Yokohama (Wednesday after the IETF Plenary)
   * Please fill out the poll: https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/aA6kjJPb/vote



## Moving the IRTF Wikis to Wikijs (in progress: https://wiki.ietf.org/group/irtf)

Status: This should be mostly completed this week. The old wiki will be turned off before IETF 116. Please add or edit things directly into the new wiki.

## Status of ANRW for 2023 - Chair(s)/Program committee
Colin Perkins indicated the issues with ACM are being worked out, and he has one chair from industry and is looking for a second chair from academia. Once the call for papers is available, it will need to be publicised widely due to a very short timeline before IETF 117 in San Francisco.


## RASPRG - newly chartered proposed research group (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-irtf-rasprg/)

Colin Perkins welcomed Ignacio and Neils as the new co-chairs for the proposed research group RASPRG. 

Ignacio Castro introduced the group and said they would focus on the IETF. Colin asked if either of the chairs would be available to introduce the proposed group at the IRTFOpen session in Yokohama. Igancio said they would.

## RECHARTER progress for HRPC

Colin Perkins said the recharter effort for HRPC was very close to completion. 