---
title: 2023-01-31
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-09T01:27:56.091Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-09T01:26:53.000Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2023-01-31


Carsten Bormann
Laurent Ciavaglia
Jane Coffin
Spencer Dawkins
Stephen Farrell
Simone Ferlin
Jonathan Hoyland
Mallory Knodel
Wojciech Kozlowski
Mirja Kuehlewind
Colin Perkins
Dave Oran
Melinda Shore
Stansilav Smyshlyaev
Nick Sullivan
Amy Vezza
Chris Wood
Lixia Zhang


## IRSG Action Items
>  IN PROGRESS
> 
> * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> * Amy Vezza to move IRSG Wiki to wiki.ietf.org
> * Allison Mankin to review draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge for IRSG Review
> * Stephen Farrell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf for IRSG Review
> * Jane Coffin to review draft-irtf-pearg-censorship for IRSG Review

## IRTF Document Status
### Waiting for IRTF Chair:

- draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448-05

### Awaiting IRSG Reviews (These documents need a reviewer):

- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv-01 Carsten Bromann
- draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties-06 Dave Oran

### In IRSG Review:

- draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping-07 - Review Complete (Chris Wood) -revision 10/16/2022. waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering
- draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute-07 - Review Complete (Chris Wood) - revision 10/16/2022. waiting on draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering
- draft-irtf-pearg-censorship (Reviewer: Jane Coffin)
- draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge (Reviewer: Allison Mankin)
- draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf (Reviewer: Stephen Farrell)


### In IRSG Poll:

- draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines (Poll Closed. 3 YES, 2 NO OB) - Waiting on shepherd/authors to consider comments from the final poll.

### In IESG Review:

- draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (Erik Kline is reviewing the document for the IESG)

### Sent to the RFC Editor:

- draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-26
Holding for references
- draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf-15
Holding for references
- draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-16
- draft-irtf-icnrg-ccninfo-15
- draft-irtf-qirg-principles-11
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-11
Holding for references
- draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-12
Holding for references
- draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys-04


## Session requests for IETF 116
Research groups should revise conflict lists before requesting sessions. Session requests close on February 10, 2023.

## IRTF Wiki move to new server

Amy is working on this (https://wiki.ietf.org/group/irtf).

## IRSG dinner in Yokohama

There was a short discussion on whether Wednesday after the plenary would still be aa good time. 

## New RGs chartering
### Usable formal methods RG

Colin said that the new research group has been approved, and Jonathan Hoyland and Stephen Farrell. 

Jonathan Hoyland said the goal of the group was to take the tools trapped in academia, and make them more generally available at the IETF to see the protocols work.

Carsten Bormann said that some people care about more than proofs and want to use the formal methods all the time.

### Research and Analysis of Standard-Setting Processes (RASP) RG

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-irtf-rasprg/
https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/irsg/rHXk1FOCjh8c5_HjN1LoOd7kkxk

Colin said the RASPRG will study the setting of standards itself. It will look at the list archives and how it produces standards. There was a side meeitng in London, and the discussion is on whether the charter text makes sense.

Mirja Kuhlewind said the AID Workshop had a lot of interesting information of observing the IETF from the outside.

Colin noted some of those folks called in to the meeting in London and he was hopeful a few would stick around for the RG. He noted some of the papers he has read have been very interesting.

Stephen Farrell questioned how this group would work with other SDOs. 

Colin said the charter text would be clarified to make it clear the RG was primarily looking at the data from the IETF.

Melinda Shore said she would send her comments in email.

Colin said other comments on the chartering effort should be sent to the list. No one had concerns over the Proposed Research Group meeting in Yokohama.

## RGs rechartering
### ICCRG
Proposed charter for approval
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-irtf-iccrg/

Colin said the charter for ICCRG is being updated since the current charter was years out of date. There was discussion at IETF 115 and that the update seems straighforward. Colin said he thought it was ready to be approved [No objections].

### HRPC
Proposed charter for discussion
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-irtf-hrpc/

Colin said this recharter will expand the scope of the RG.

Mallory Knodel said the group wanted to add some policy considerations to the RG discussions. She said she would share the new text with anyone who is interested.

Stephen Farrell said the text did not indicate what was in scope or out of scope and he was concerned.

Mallory responded that could be afeature, not a bug. She was more concerned with the broader implications of human rights than the broader concept of policy.

Mirja Kühlewind said she thought it would be important to talk about the topics in the IETF, but she was unsure it would fit in the IRTF.

Mallory responded that HRPC is not the only place for these discussions, but it would be a good place to start.

Mirja said she thought that if policy makers came to the IRTF to think they are going to work with the IETF that could be a problem. 

The conversation for the recharter is ongoing.







