---
title: 2023-05-30
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-31T17:03:34.294Z
tags: irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-05-30T21:55:25.850Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2023-05-30
<pre>
DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the May 30, 2023 IRSG Teleconference
</pre>
Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------
1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

PRESENT

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Sofía Celi (HRPC Chair)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Mat Ford (At-Large Member)
Jérôme François (NMRG Chair)
Mallory Knodel (HRPC Chair)
Neils ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
Chris Wood (PEARG Chair)


 1.2 Approval of the Minutes of the April 25, 2023 teleconference

The minutes for the April 25, 2023 IRSG Teleconference were approved.

## IRSG Action Item Review
> * DONE
>     * Marie-Jose Montpetit to review draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge for IRSG Review 
>     * Brian Trammell to review draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering for IRSG Review
> * IN PROGRESS
>     * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
> 
> * NEW
>     * Brian Trammell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-frost for IRSG Review
>     * Colin Perkins to followup with the DINRG Chairs regarding a possible DINRG Recharter.
>     * Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds.

## IRTF Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history
    * Holding for references (C470)
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation
    * Holding for references (C470)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf 
    * Holding for references (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve 
    * Holding for references (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2
    * Holding for references (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf 
    * Holding for references (C450)
* draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats (RFC-EDITOR)
* draft-irtf-nwcrg-tetrys (AUTH48)

### In IESG Conflict Review
* draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties
    * IESG Review complete. Ready to be sent to the RFC Editor.
* draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures
    * IESG Reviewer: Roman Danyliw, on the June 8 IESG telechat.
* draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
    * Not yet assigned an IESG Reviewer
### In IRSG Final Poll
* draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448 
    * Final poll completed; waiting for okay to move on
* draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering 
    * In IRSG Final Poll, due June 13, 2023 - has 1 yes
### In IRSG Review
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping 
    * IRSG Review complete; moving to Final Poll
* draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv
    * IRSG Review complete; Revised I-D Needed
* draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
    * IRSG Review complete; Revised I-D Needed
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute
    * IRSG Review complete; moving to Final Poll
* draft-irtf-cfrg-frost 
    * review assinged to Brian Trammell
### In IRTF Chair Review
* draft-irtf-hrpc-association

## Pre IETF 117
* Session Requests are open until June 9. (https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/requests#irtf)

The IRSG was reminded that the sessions requests for IETF 117 are open until June, 9, 2023. Amy Vezza reminded the group to pay attention to the conflict list.

Colin Perkins said the ANRW will take place all day on Monday, July 24, which will limit the IRTF time at IETF 117.

* Any other updates 

Colin Perkins said the two ANRP winners that will present at iETF 117 are Simon Scherrer for his work on modelling the BBR congestion control algorithm and Siva Kakarla for his work on verifying the correctness of name servers.

* GAIA RG Review with the IAB 

At IETF 117 the IAB will review the GAIA Research Group.

## ANRW for 2023 
* Set for Monday, July 24, 2023
* Any other ANRW updates

Colin Perkins updated the IRSG on the status of the ANRW. He said that there were twenty one papers submitted, and the committee is likely to accept about half. He said the Program Chairs have a keynote speaker, and are working on some possible invited talks as well as a panel discission tentatively on the subject of impactful research.

Colin also said that there were twelve travel grants awarded for IETF 117.

## Research Groups Updates
* RECHARTER progress for HRPC

Mallory Knodel said that she thought the recharter text was ready in the GitHub. Colin Perkins asked if all the comments and questions had been addressed. 

Mallory said that she thought all the ones that were actionable were addressed, and the other issues had been discussed earlier in the process of the recharter and had been discarded by the group.

Colin asked Mallory to send him some pointers to the discussion.

* Other RG News

Stephen Farrell said the UFMRG may want to hold some training at IETF 118 on the use of tools. He said they are thinking of requesting some time and a room on Sunday for several hours. 

Amy Vezza said it would be useful if the Secretariat had the details for the request early. She requested he send details as soon as he knew them to support@ietf.org. 

Sofía Celi said she did something similar with a workshop she works with on the topic of Real World Crypto and would be happy to help Stephen identify people and tools that may be worthwhile for the tutorial.

Stephen agreed, and said the UFM research group has a thread on their mailing list and he encouraged Sofía and other interested IRSG members to participate in the discussion.

## New Discussion topics
*  Document shepherd templates 

Sofía Celi introduced the topic of having a document shepherd write up template to guide prospective shepherds in what information would be useful to the IRSG. 

Stephen Farrell asked why having a document shepherd template was necessary.

Brian Trammell cautioned that there were relatively few items that need to be checked for, and the template should be short.

Colin Perkins agreed there were not many items on the checklist, but he would like shepherds to confirm details such as; if the chairs checked with the authors regarding any IPR; if the document got wide review; and if all issues were addressed in the group.

Stephen pushed back and said the document writeup templates in the IETF were terrible and he did not want the IRTF doing make-work for no reason.

Mallory Knodel said she thought a template would be useful especially for newer participants who do not know what the scope of work that shepherding a document entails.

Stephen disagreed.

Carsten Bormann reminded the group the IRSG is not the intended audience for the shepherd template. 

Chris Wood said he thought the IPR question should not be part of the document shepherd template, it should happen earlier in the process, perhaps at Research Group Last Call.

Colin said he agreed that something was needed, but it should be short. He asked Sofía to draft some text to circulate with the IRSG.

Action Item: Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds.

* Outreach to Universities in San Francisco Area re: IRTF/ANRW

Colin Perkins said the Greg Wood, from the IETF LLC staff is looking for some help identifying local folks in the San Francisco Bay Area to send information about the IETF/IRTF for distribution. Colin asked the IRSG to send suggestions of people and places to contact to him or Greg Wood.

* AOB

Colin Perkins said that he is looking for volunteers to help plan the IRSG Dinner in San Francisco








