---
title: 2023-06-27
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-06-30T05:39:28.347Z
tags: minutes
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-06-28T18:16:45.424Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference 2023-06-27

DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT * DRAFT
INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the June 27, 2023 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------
## 1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

PRESENT

Jenny Bui (Secretariat)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Spencer Dawkins (At-Large Member)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Jonathan Hoyland (UFMRG Chair)
Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
Neils ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Melinda Shore (At-Large Member)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
Amy Vezza (Secretariat)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)
Niels ten Oever (RASPRG Chair)

### Approval of the Minutes of the May 30, 2023 teleconference

The Minutes from the May 25, 2023 IRSG Teleconfernce were approved.

## IRSG Action Item Review
* DONE
    * Brian Trammell to review draft-irtf-cfrg-frost for IRSG Review
    * Colin Perkins to followup with the DINRG Chairs regarding a possible DINRG Recharter.
* IN PROGRESS
    * Colin Perkins to draft text for an IRTF Code of Conduct.
        Colin Perkins asked for assistance with drafting text about academic integrity. Brian Trammell volunteered to help.

    * Sofía Celi to draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds.

# IRTF Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history
    * AUTH48 (C470)
* draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation
    * AUTH48 (C470)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-vrf 
    * AUTH48-DONE (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve 
    * AUTH48 (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2
    * AUTH48 (C450)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf 
    * EDIT (C450)
* draft-irtf-nwcrg-bats 
    * (RFC-EDITOR)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures 
    * (EDIT)
* draft-irtf-panrg-path-properties 
    * (EDIT)
* draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448 
    * (EDIT)


### In IESG Conflict Review
* draft-irtf-pearg-censorship
    * IESG Reviewer: Paul Wouters

### In IRSG Final Poll

* draft-irtf-icnrg-pathsteering 
    * In IRSG Final Poll, due June 13, 2023 - has 2 yes; 2 no-ob
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icnping 
    * In IRSG Final Poll, Due June 13, 2 yes, 2 no-ob
* draft-irtf-icnrg-icntraceroute
    * In IRSG Final Poll, Due June 13, 2 yes, 2 no-ob

### In IRSG Review

* draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnx-timetlv
    * IRSG Review complete; Revised I-D Needed
* draft-irtf-t2trg-iot-edge
    * IRSG Review complete; Revised I-D Needed
* draft-irtf-cfrg-frost 
    * IRSG Review complete; Revised I-D Needed 

Colin Perkins said that the document may need more review from the Crypto Panel before it comes back to the IRSG.

### In IRTF Chair Review
* draft-irtf-hrpc-association

## Pre IETF 117
* Preliminary agenda is available https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/117/agenda

Lixia Zhang said that her co-chair will be in Europe, and the current time for the session at IETF 117 would be detrimental to his being able to join. She said they've requested the DINRG session move to a morning session if possible. Colin Perkins said he would follow up on the request with the Secretariat. 

* Any other updates for IETF 117

There will be the usual planned IRSG Dinner on Wednesday after the IETF Plenary - please let Colin know if you will be in person so you can join. Venue suggestions are welcome. 
Current suggetion for restaurant: https://www.baiasf.com/ (vegan Italian)

## ANRW for 2023 
* Any ANRW updates

Colin Perkins reported that the ANRW had 21 papers submitted and the Program Committee accepted eleven of them. There is a draft schedule for the ANRW on the Web site (https://irtf.org/anrw/2023/program.html). Colin asked the research group chairs to alert their groups if any of the program would be of interest or relevant. 

Melinda Shore said the Program Committee worked well, and the paper review went very smoothly. She said the program should be good. A few of the IRSG will take part in the panel discssion at the workshop.

Amy Vezza said that just under a third of all IETF registrants have added the ANRW to their IETF registration, so it has been scheduled in one of the biggest rooms.

## Research Groups Updates
### RECHARTER progress 
   * HRPC

Colin Perkins said there was a lot of discussion that has subsided and Sofía had sent a revision to him that added some explicit research questions and clarified some details.
    
Mallory Knodel said the discussion is ongoing for charter revision. She asked if the current revision text should be sent to both the HRPC and IRSG Mailing lists concurrantly. 
    
Colin agreed that was a good way forward, but that ultimately it was up to the chairs. He said that the current GitHub and datatracker charters do not match and it would be good to synch them before they get wider review. He said the recharter text would need to be reviewed by the IAB before approval.
    
Mallory agreed to update the datatracker charter.

   * DINRG
 
Colin Perkins said the DINRG Charter had been discussed with the IAB. 
    
Lixia Zhang said that the charter text has been revised based on the comments received (not shared with anyone yet). Colin said there were some late comments Lixia might not have seen before this call. Lixia agreed to catch up the comments and work on text.
    
Lixia asked if the recharter would be complete before IETF 117, because DINRG 2021 workshop report has been accepted for ACM Computer Communication Review, which is likely to get more people to look up DINRG, but the existing charter text is obsolete. Colin said there was time on the IAB agendas before the meeting to discuss the recharter text.
    
Dave Oran suggested that getting the right communities involved in the research and interested in the agenda and presentations at meetings would do more to lessen concerns. He said that he was less worried about if the recharter was complete before the meeting, and that the chairs should concentrate on making the best use of the session at IETF 117 for good talks and a good agenda.
    
Mirja Kühlewind said that the IAB had worried about whether a change in the charter would make the research group more successful than it has been in the past. She said the group should be building bridges between communities to further the research. She was less concerned with the charter text and more concerned with attracting the people who would contribute to the work.
    
Lixia said they have been working on reaching out; the DINRG 2021 workshop report received great comments about the work's importance. She repeated again that the text on the DINRG page no longer matches the RG's current direction, so it should be corrected. She will be talking sabbatical this fall and spend more time for moving the DINRG work forward.

* Other RG News

## Any Other Business

NONE
