---
title: IRSG Teleconference November 26, 2024
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-11-27T18:46:06.933Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-11-27T18:44:14.214Z
---

# IRSG Teleconference November 26, 2024

## Attendance 

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Jenny Bui (IETF Secretariat)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Laurent Ciavaglia (NMRG Chair)
Jana Iyengar (At-large member)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Dirk Kutscher (ICNRG/DINRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (IRTF Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

## Approval of past telechat minutes
The minutes of the September 24, 2024 telechat have been approved.

## Administrivia

## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
#### IN PROGRESS:
- The IRSG to review draft text for guidance to IRTF document shepherds https://github.com/MelindaShore/irtf-doc-shepherd


Colin: It looks in reasonably good shape to me, so maybe a couple things to sort out but it’s pretty close from what I can tell. Please do take a look and I guess send some comments to Melinda or raise issues on the repo if there are things you cannot write in there. It would be good to get that finished soon because I think Melinda is looking to retire and disengage from the IRTF so we should get that finished before she goes. 

Jana: So what you’re saying is that if we don’t want Melinda to retire, we should not let this through.


#### NEW: 

## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue
- draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-properties

Colin: Nothing to say there, I think it’s all good.

### In IRSG Final Poll
- draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct
- draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-irtf-nmrg-green-ps

Colin: The Code of Conduct we have on the agenda later, the other three basically just need reviews, people from the IRSG to ballot. Several of them have got one yes, but we need at least two yeses from people to progress them so please do take a look and if you think they’re OK, ballot yes, otherwise these are not going anywhere. Remember they all had a detailed review by the relevant research group so it's just a sanity check from a breadth of people here that we’re mostly looking for so you don’t have to review them sort of ultra carefully, just do a sort of quick read and sanity check. 

### In IESG Conflict Review
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets

Colin: So this is a CFRG draft. I'm not sure we have anyone from CFRG here. It's waiting for the conflict review. The IANA had questions which we need answers to before it can progress, but I don't think that's holding up the IESG review, but it will need someone to to look at the IANA considerations. I think i’ve already told the CFRG chairs, but i’ll remind them. 

Stephen: Just a question that will come. So this is an example of just adding more IANA stuff to a registry, and I think HPPE will likely have something similar. I don't know if we want to think at some point about whether work like that should really belong in the IRTF where there's an existing algorithm or protocol that has IANA registries and all they're doing is just kind of adding more, rows in the registry. I'm not sure what the right thing to do is but it kind of seems odd that that's an IRTF thing.

Colin: I don't know enough about the technical thing to decide. I think in some cases it makes sense for IRTF stuff to have registries, in some cases it should be owned by the IETF. I'm not quite sure which of those cases this particular thing is.

Stephen: Well I I think it's I think both this one and HPK  case where the initial document it makes sense to have a registry, but whether you're maintain maintaining that registry makes sense in the IRTF or whether that should shift over to the IETF is I think a thing to think about.

Dave: Well, I see INCRG has some experimental RFCs that have Iana registries with identified experts who are participants in the RG as the reviewers for additions to the registry. So I think we have a precedent for that.

Stephen: I'm not objecting to anything like that. I'm just the point I think in this these cases, the, the additions to the registry are all just kind of bookkeeping protocol changes, and CFRG e.g. is already pretty busy and slow in getting things through the pipeline, so it might be that, you know, trying to encourage some of that kind of work that's mostly bookkeeping to be handled somewhere in the IETF. That might be a useful thing to think about.

Colin: I mean if this is code points for something that's gonna be used by an IETF protocol that should probably be done in IETF. I'm not quite sure what, I don't quite understand the crypto well enough to know how it fits in. But yeah, we, we should we should certainly have  a think about what where the right places for some of these, yeah. But yes, we do need some other registries to be done in IETF.

Carsten: So related but different examples the kangaroo-twelve draft which defines the algorithm essentially a hash algorithm and now of course the registries for CMS, the named information registry and all these registries need to become active and put in numbers for this. And I'm wondering how we should organize that because there's a lot of busy work that needs to be done to make the algorithm actually useful.

Colin: That sounds like IETF work, you know, CFRG defines the algorithm, then IETF says, ok, you should, this is how you use the algorithm in this protocol. 

Carsten: IETF is big. Who actually does that?

Stephen: I think the LMS parameters is similar and HPK is similar. There is an initial bit of work that does belong in CFRG and they do that work, they set up a registry, but then the maintaining of that might be better in an IETF context and not burdening CFRG with that administrative work. 

Carsten: Yeah, so are we asking IETF to set up a structure that would enable that?

Stephen: I'm just asking the question. I don't know what the right answer is. Like you said, I mean you had another example of Kangaroo-twelve, it's a recurring kind of thing.

Colin: I would say that if we have working groups which are using algorithms defined in CFRG, then those working groups should do the work of defining the registry for how that algorithm gets integrated into their protocols presumably. I think if the registry is, these are same sets of algorithmic choices for using this crypto algorithm, that's probably something CFRG should specify. Does that make sense?

Stephen: So CFRG kind of sets the shape for the registry.

Colin: CFRG says these are the same sets of choices you can use and then TLS working group e.g. says use this code point to indicate you're using that crypto algorithm in TLS.

Carsten: But where does the workgroup say that? The workgroup can only say something by publishing an RFC. You have eight new RFCs forking group twelve, each page logging that says which point is used for identifying the four algorithms.

Colin: I don’t see anything wrong with that.If it was that simple and then sure that would be a bit of a waste but you usually there's more to it than just use this one code point, right?

Stephen: I think the furthest I'll go is that maybe maybe this kind of deserves to be an agenda item on some future meeting where we can have the CFRG chairs and just talk about, you know, is there a way to handle this more efficiently that kind of doesn't put busy work on CFRG.

Colin: That makes sense. 

Dave: Just a quick question. Isn't there in IANA the notation that some registries in order to make modifications require an RFC, others just require expert review and others say free for all, right? So I think it depends in each case what the characterization of that particular registry is, right? I mean there may be cases for just recording algorithms for TLS to use that is expert review and not requiring an RFC.

Colin: Yeah, I think they usually require a document, it's not always an RFC, but I'd have to check.

Carsten: I think we have all variants here. There are some RFC required. There is some standards action, there are some specifications required and so on. So RFC 8126 has six or seven alternatives and we have registries in all of those policies.

Stephen: I think IRTF produced registries tend to be specification required because they can't be standard. I think the IANA process is very straightforward. I think the only real question is, you know, where do we do the busy work? Is it in the IRTF or in the IETF if you can figure a way of doing it in the IETF that makes sense. 

Colin:  I will send a note to the CFRG chairs suggesting they might want to think about this.


### In IRSG Reviews
- draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat

Colin: Both of these I think are under control. Jerome reviewed the first one. Mirja reviewed the second one that they both need revised drafts, but I think we know what needs changing and the authors seem on top of it for both of them, so I think we'll get revisions pretty soon for both of those.

### In IRTF Chair Review 
- None

## Discussion Topics
### IRTF Code of Conduct 
    - draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct + IRSG list discussion
    
Colin: So obviously we've been discussing the code of conduct draft for a while. I submitted an updated draft on Friday which tried to address all the comments and there has been a bit more discussion over the last couple of days, so it's obvious I didn't quite get it right. Most of them, I think most of the comments I think were straightforward and were addressed hopefully without too much trouble. I saw Laurent had a bunch of comments which was sort of mostly editorial. I think I'd either addressed all of them or or I've explained why I think they're already addressed in the latest version, but if there are things which are still unclear, then I'm happy to consider how to change the draft. I just need specific suggestions for what is unclear because I'm not seeing it, but, but I think that's under control, I don't know if Laurent is here. But as I say I'm happy to take specific suggestions if there's things I've missed in the latest version.

Laurent: Thanks for replying to the comments. These were mostly editorial and matter of days so I'm all good with the reply to that and ok.

Colin: Okay, the main issue I think was about the generative AI and the use of generative AI, which both Mirja and Jana picked up on in their reviews. We had some discussion over the last few days. I sent some text to the mailing list last night as my latest suggestion for how to resolve that. I see Jana is here, I don't think Mirja is. I don't know if this addressed the concerns or if we still need to iterate this.

Jana: I read your text, Colin and I think that's, that's good. I like the text that you have now in the email thread, and I would definitely prefer that we replace the existing one of that. I think it sets the right balance.

Colin: I think I would prefer to include some text rather than just point at the ACM policy if we can. In part because I think the ACM policy is just not particularly well written, but also I don't trust them to change it in unpredictable ways. So if people are happy with the latest text, then I see Stephen says ok, so Carste, Dave, you also had comments, are you OK with this?

Carsten: I generally have a general preference for referring complex stuff instead of extracting random stuff out there and missing the rest. But the text that you sent at midnight works for me. I mean it's definitely agreeable. And I brought up the Wikipedia thing just to make sure that we are not somehow going into the weeds about needing to identify where we get our inspiration from. So that's not really well defined thing at the moment for other sources, so we shouldn't try to define it for AI tools.

Colin: I think I forget who it was, I mean the comment that this is something that's likely to change over time I think it's certainly true, and yes, it may well be that this turns that Jana has right everyone just decided is not worth acknowledging in a few years.We'll see how it goes. I think for now I'd prefer to over acknowledge and under acknowledge it's easier to acknowledge too much and then relax the policy later. 

Carsten: The question is whether that sentiment goes into the policy or is something that the policy recommends to other people exercising it?

Colin: Sure, I think currently it recommends that people are on the side of acknowledging and we can revise the RFC in a couple of years if it becomes a problem, I guess.  I will in that case submit a revised draft with that text, and Jana, if you're happy with that, if you can change your balanced position once it's done.

Jana: Happy to do it. 

Colin:  I think hopefully that will then be approved and we can then move on and get this to the RFC editor and hopefully get it, get it done before my term finishes. 

Jana: Sorry about throwing that wrench in. I thought about whether I should make it a point or not, but it does seem like a moment for us to discuss and figure out.

Colin: It’s better to discuss it now than afterwards. 

Jana:  Well I'm happy with the outcome.

Colin: Thank you and and you know Mirja had the same comment, so or at least a very similar comment, so it needed addressing. So I will submit a revision that has that new text on AI. I think that's the only outstanding comments so if there's anything I've missed, please let me know soon, but if not, I will submit that revision, do a final call just to make sure nothing has been missed and then ship it to the IESG for conflict review. We’ll see what they make of it.

### COI Policy 
    - See [Google document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cjmsjQO-dDIcPLtX4kt86XuK701sZpZjvlAMPecpDBk/edit?usp=sharing)

Colin: So there's a Google Doc which I think I put a link into in the notes, so most of the conflicts of interest policy I I think is in reasonable shape. There's a few comments in there, some of them are pretty straightforward. Alvaro had a comment on terminology about covered individuals and noted that we need to specify disclosure and recusal procedures and that sort of thing and and yes, I agree that those things need to go in and would clarify the terminology and I think that's straightforward to do. Most of them were about, most of the difficult comments seem to be about what counts as a conflict of interest and what to do about NDAs. And so, e.g., if in terms of the, what counts as a conflict, if you have a draft by an author from a particular company and the chair is also from that company, does that count as a conflict of interest or not? And, you know, does the person have to recuse or not in that case? And the IESG has a sort of a definition to do with are they working closely together where they define what working closely together means? And I think the current text we have says if they work for the same company, that's a conflict. I guess that the question there is whether we need to adopt something closer to the IESG definition or whether the broader definition we have in the current one is OK. The other point was how we handle NDAs and you know if we have something, e.g. a research group chair who has a contract presumably with a non disclosure agreement that might lead to a conflict of interest. What do we do about that given that they may not be able to disclose the conflict, and I guess there's a range of possibilities we could specify in there and that the draft is currently silent about what we do in that case. So people have opinions on those topics. 

Jana: Talking about the comment from Dhruv in the document?

Colin: There's one from Dhruv and there was one from Carsten about NDAs.

Jana: So, there's a question about process that I don't remember, so help me call in terms of adopting drafts. Is the IRSG required to go through rough consensus or is this a chair decision? 

Colin: In terms of adopting drafts, it's a chair decision. In terms of publishing them, the IRSG needs to ballot on them at the end. 

Jana: That's fair, but in terms of adoption in the IETF one of the differences then between the IETF and the IRTF, and the idea of would be that we don't adopt draft in the IETF without draft consensus. So a chair's affiliation doesn't actually matter so much. They can shepherd it, they can champion it and so on, but ultimately that consensus drives the decision. So I think it justifies having a stronger COI language against all chairs to recuse themselves because they can arbitrarily decide to bring in work that they like.

Colin: We don't need consensus to publish either. We can publish non consensus documents which the IETF can’t.

Jana: I think that's the argument against the comment there. I agree that we should keep the text then because I think we need that COI otherwise you basically create an incentive for people to go become IRTF chairs and they are now shipping documents through the IRTF for whatever reasons.

Colin: I mean that was my reason for putting it in because that there's fewer safeguards than in the IETF where you have a much stronger consensus process.

Carsten: There is a nice should in the sentence.

Colin: Which particular sentence? 

Carsten: The nice yellow sentence, should. I think that that's pretty much the leeway we need. Don't make this a mechanical rule but do the right thing.

Colin: I am hearing that people are ok with the current text for that particular issue. I guess the other main topic is what to do about NDAs. Carsten, I think you brought that up. Do you want to say anything about this?

Carsten: I just wanted to point out that we shouldn't adopt requirements on shares to to completely give up any, any privacy here and the need to disclose something should be limited to the cases where we actually need it and then it should be limited to the chair recusing without necessarily explaining why the chair is recusing themselves.

Colin: I mean, I think there's there's possibly several different ways we could go, and, you know, the the way I think we have typically done this so far is that we don't require people to disclose anything about cases where they've got NDAs because of course we it's difficult to do that and we just trust them to recuse themselves in inappropriate circumstance.The opposite extreme might be to say if you have a conflict of interest and an NDA that prohibits you from disclosing that, then you can't serve in particular roles because, there's a potential trust issue and we can't tell if, if the person in that case is acting in a biased way or not, which is perhaps the most open way in that we require people to disclose all the conflicts and if they're not willing to disclose the conflicts then they can't serve, which protects I guess the organization but possibly excludes some people and possibly including some existing chairs. I don't know. And I guess the other way is we trust the chance to do the right thing and risk accusations of bias if it turns out that they have conflicts that they're not disclosing. Or I guess I don't know if there's a middle ground we can find. I guess we could maybe say that people must be willing to disclose that they have NDAs and even if they don't say, you know, say anything about else about them and that might exclude some people but not others depending on the NDAs.

Carsten: Well, the first rule about NDAs is that you don't talk about NDAs.

Colin: But there may be some companies which are willing to have people who have an NDA to be able to publicly say I have an NDA but not say who it's with or what it's about.

Carsten: I'm just saying that is the unlikely case. 

Colin: It’s probably not realistic one, but I don’t know. 

Jana: I prefer not to chase ghosts down with policy. If you have a concrete case where there is such a thing, then we can figure out how to address it. But in the meantime, I think in general, in the IRTF we've leaned more towards giving leaving and, and, and trust the chairs to do the right thing. It has worked. So unless we believe that there's a real concern here, I don't see a reason to add more guardrails because it can make things more complicated in that particular sense, in my opinion.

Colin: I mean it certainly makes things more complicated that I I guess the the question is how much you think there's a risk here, you know, if, you know,  if when I had come come become IRTF chair, someone would come along and says I will make a very large donation to your university to to support your research and here's an NDA so you can't say anything about it and then come along and says well also we've got these drafts that we want to push through the IRTF and publish. You know, that might be considered a problematic conflict.

Jana:  I agree and I think that we already have that text for the chairs themselves to accuse themselves from such a decision without having to disclose anything. 

Colin: I mean if we're ok with people just saying, you know, be being honest about that.

Jana: That's what I'm saying. I am saying that we do trust the IRTF of chairs to do the right thing here, seems reasonable to me. I think it puts the onus of choosing the chairs reasonably. I think that's worked well unless we think there's a problem with that happening. I'm arguing that just leaving it where we allow the chairs to recuse themselves and there are processes where you know there can be appeals against work that's being brought into a particular group, RG and so on. We have processes for that. So it seems like those things exist, and if somebody creates a you know if somebody starts to just mill and produce documents through a particular RG, it will become evident. So, it seems to me that adding an explicit NDA or disclosure just makes it potentially harder for us to enforce and those requirements are really not enforceable, but putting it in there just makes it.

Colin: Sure, I mean that's that's fine. I don't have any specific cases I'm reacting against here. Do we want to say anything about that or is the existing text clear enough?

Jana: That's what I was trying to say is that I think the existing text is good. Let's not add more and then confuse the whole matter. 

Colin: Okay, anyone else have comments on that?  I'm hearing that people are basically happy with the current text possibly with the addition of a note about disclosure and recusal procedure and clarifying covered persons. So I will update to try and address that and hopefully we can then move forward.

### Sustainability RG
    - Charter sent to IRSG email list on 22 Nov 2024

Colin:  So sustainability, is Eve here? I don't think she is, I don't see her. Okay, so sustainability. I circulated a draft charter again on Friday I think it was and there was a side meeting in Dublin and a whole bunch of discussion on the mailing list and on IRTF discussions and E-Impact and the Green working group list and basically everywhere about this around the Dublin meeting. At this point, I I think we are at the point of diminishing returns on the charter, I think to my mind it is good enough and it's an important topic so I I am leaning towards sending this to the IAB for approval as a proposed group, but if people have comments or objections or concerns about that, now would be a good time to raise them.

Dave: Well, I think it's fine to move forward. There are a couple of messages the last couple of days. I haven't had a chance to really digest that maybe somewhat worried that part of the community that's going to participate believes that sustainability touches absolutely everything. There was a message yesterday I believe saying well just look at TLS 1.3 and all the sustainability impacts of TLS 1.3. I'm going and that makes me somewhat worried but I don't think there's anything we could do to the charter to like, to improve, to scope things any better. I think we just have to run the experiment and see if it starts getting out of control.

Colin: I think I probably agree and this is one of the reasons we have three co chairs lined up for that group if it gets charted. I tend to agree that the charter isn't the thing which is gonna constrain the scope. It's good chairing.

Dirk: There were some comments I mean for you know some of the the wording which may sounds sound a bit vague, but, I'm not sure it's gonna make a difference to be honest, like things like resiliency is a bit unclear what it has to do with sustainability, but, this will not make it make a big difference, I agree.

Ignacio: I have a similar feeling that I have also a similar concern, of course, sustainability is a trade off with absolutely everything else. You could push to have a bit more of clarification to make sure that it's from the perspective of sustainability rather than the other way around but in practice it doesn't really matter. It depends on what the chairs decide to do, so being too constructive about it is probably just a bit of a waste of time. I fear.

Colin:  I think in practice the charters set a direction and then the group goes and that none of the IRTF charters are really good for constraining what groups do, that's more the way IETF charters are written. I guess set them going and review them in a year which happens anyway as part of the process and see where they've gone and see if they need reining in at that point.

Dirk: There's one thing I think I mentioned that in Dublin is that, so for a new group, new participants who want to join, they often look at the charter in order to get some orientation on what they should possibly do. And, in that sense it could be beneficial to prioritize or list some of the say initial work items or expectations of what could be good, good contributions. Currently it's just fairly broad and you yeah and it really depends on the chairs steering it really really well. I'm not excluding but if they want to go listing a few concrete things that they want to focus on in the beginning.

Colin: That's something we've gone back and forth on a couple of times actually. I'm wondering if maybe we should have the core charter text without and then ask them to just write a couple of milestones in possibly undated milestones to suggest where they're going over the first year.

Jana: A couple of points, this particular topic and I think I'm gonna have a similar set of questions on this on the next one which is space rg. This is broad and sustainability network protocols is fashionable to think about and talk about, but ultimately, there's a real question of even what the value of the work is in the kind of scheme of things. Now, that said. What I want to, say here is that given that the scope is so large and the outcomes are nebulous, I think it's gonna be really important to have chairs that can meaningfully direct conversation, Otherwise it becomes a catch all for everything and anything under the sun, and it's basically just time that people are spending and there's no real outcomes that are expected of this. I mean analogy tends to be open in terms of outcomes, which is a good thing, and so I want to encourage that. However, this one is pretty broad and the work is pretty, I want to say sparse. It's not an area of work where there's a ton of research going on and a ton of people are engaged in it, it's sparse work. So having a research group like this would, in my mind, require us to have good, clear minded and strong chairs who can also talk about, hey, there's not much going on here. Maybe we should shut this down. This goes to Dave's point, which is that every organization in my opinion has a reason to sustain itself and that often becomes the logic. So if there was a way in which we could frame the depth of the RG, that would be useful. Though sustainability is a never ending topic and it could become one of those, one of those working one of those research groups that just keeps going on and on with no particular goals or outcomes.

Colin: That makes sense. 

Dirk: This is a topic where it's probably not a problem to invite many presentations every meeting, but the question is a little bit, what is the criteria for progress and that's why I thought it may be good to have some first more concrete goals.

Colin:  I mean that they do have some suggested topics to go on and I need to look at them because one of them was a sort of requirements document and sort of terminology which is just a way of killing the group to start.

Brian: I think my counter question would be what are the criteria for success for MAPRG? Like, I mean there's the charter which is sort of like framing how we're gonna start off. I see this evolving a lot like MAPRG did, right? Like it's sort of being a conduit between a venue to discuss things in a conduit to like among communities, like 'm cognizant of the fact that we have the E-Impact list, which is the IAB side of things and we have the Green working group which is doing a very, a much more focused sort of set of things in this space that are actually close to standardization. And then now there's the RG. I'm thinking that the RG ends up kind of replacing the IAB activity. It's not clear to me from the charter that that's 100 % the intent. But, I think that's what's gonna happen, right? So like I'm kind of comfortable with  not having an exit criterion on this particular one for the same reason that I'm kind of comfortable not having an exit criterion on MAPRG, right? You know map rg can end as soon as we have completely measured the internet.

Jana: I would Brian to your point though, I think that there's something that we can all agree reasonably, which is that measurements and metrics are a fundamental part of the internet's operation and they're going to be for as long as it exists. So my apologies existence is not ever going to be in question as long as we're measuring things, which is like, we're gonna keep doing that forever. 

Colin: I think the proponents of this group would call sustainability a fundamental part of the network as well.

Jana: But so here's the difference in my opinion again, MAPRG, produces things that actually have impact on things like people actually pay attention to what's going on in MAPRG, all the way from academics to industry and everybody else and those metrics and those things go somewhere in terms of moving the internet forward. If sustainability rg is able to make an argument that data is 1.3 for instance consumes more power and therefore we shouldn't do it. That's a different argument and I buy that. But do we believe that's where we are? That's the question I'm asking like I don't think that's where we are, and so the question is what is the Sustain rg going to impact? The research is valuable. I'm not saying that it shouldn't be done. It's valuable at this point in time. It's more of a curiosity than anything else to me. 

Colin: What I think I'm hearing is a bunch of questions we should be asking in a year's time when we come to decide whether to turn it into a full group to see if it's turning into something that is gonna make concrete progress or if this is just gonna spin its wheels and have lots of lots of interesting discussions and not necessarily achieve anything in which case we should maybe be rethinking how to structure it and if it continues. 



### Space RG
    - https://github.com/ekline/spacerg/

Colin: Space RG is at a much earlier stage. I I did talk to the proponents in Dublin and that they're definitely interested in forming a research group and their goal is to try and form a research group that complements what's going on in the deepspace group in the  IETF. Of course the issue there is that deep space, the proponent it's Erik Kline and a bunch of people from NASA and places like that primarily for the proponents. The big trouble here is that the deep space group in the IETF doesn't seem to be particularly well focused yet and it's not clear what's happening there and until they really know what's happening with the deep space group in IETF they can't really focus the charter to to sensibly compliment that. It's like looking like they wanna do deep space IP or going to the moon, going to Mars rather than doing Leo stuff and it's looking like they want to be quite heavily research focused and structure it in a way that avoids all the discussions about Leo Constellations and what to do with them, which to me seems sensible, but I  think we're probably on track to wait and see what happens with the deep space buff and whether that turns into a working group and what its charter looks like. Then revise this charter probably around March, April time with the goal of getting it running if it happens at all by the July meeting in Madrid, at least in part because they think it's not clear what's happening with deep space in IETF and in part because they're not clear that they'll have the right people in Bangkok to have a sensible first meeting anyway. So I suspect this is maybe something that we will get a sensible charter in place before Bangkok but it's probably something you'll be looking to hand over to whoever my successor is.

Dave: I mean, there seemed to be a pretty divided set of opinions as to whether the moon constituted deep space or whether you had to include Mars. Much of the time of the meeting while I was sitting there was specifically on that issue, something I'd like to understand better from a research perspective is, are the issues around the moon strictly engineering issues? What are the actual interesting research problems when you're talking about, delays and connection characteristics with respect to the moon? Mars seems a much better target if you're looking at research.

Colin: Agreed. That's definitely one of the discussions we were having. Is this just engineering for the moon? And is it feasible to do what they want to do to Mars?

Dirk: Right, and I mean if you have a chance to talk to them, so one observation from the current charter text is that there are not many research questions mentioned and it looks a lot like documenting and investigating maybe reverse engineering. I don't see much constructive work. So that would be, I think, much more interesting for a research group if you had some, you know, DTN like agenda.

Colin: It's definitely a bit hazy what's in the current one.

Stephen: Just a question to what extent are people making claims that space agencies are kind of on board with this? I I I had a quick chat with Erik also, but I thought they weren't kind of saying that to me that Erik called.

Colin: It was definitely mentioned in the side meeting, but I suspect it depends on who you talk to at the space agencies.

Stephen: Exactly. And which NASA center and because they're all at war with each other the entire time, right? 

Colin: That’s my impression, yes. 

Lixia: What I heard from the BoF, is that some people had a connection with some people from NASA, all I know. I would just say that I shared the comments so far. I don't think it's right as a research group.

Stephen: I guess, like you said, it's probably more comments for the incoming IRTF chair, but trying to figure out if claims made about space agency support are true or not true or party true is very tricky and if such claims are made backing up or in support of a charter or a research group, then figuring that out will be very helpful because if you don't figure it out, then you might end up in the middle of a war between two NASA centers or something. And it's not easy to figure out. 

Colin: It’s really not. I think from my point of view, the thing to do here is to walk this flow and see how things evolve with deep space in IETF and see if it then turns into a sensible focused charter that complements that or if it still remains unclear what the goals are.

Jana: I just had one thing, it's not a great parallel, but it comes to mind that the condition control was in the early 2000s. There was definitely funding agencies and various things involved, and while the battle happened across the condition controllers to become the one true condition. I feel like having the IRTF of the RG as the battlefield where that battle happens is actually not a bad place because these discussions need to happen and we get to be a part of it, but we also provide a room where these people can come together under the notewell. They're able to come together without lawyers present and discuss the technical issues and the merits and so on. I think there's value in providing this even if there are two warring NASA units to show up and discuss it to the extent they're willing and able to.

Colin: In any case I want to see what's happening with deep space before chartering anything.


### IETF 121 recap
    - How did the [[IETF 121]] meeting go? Anything issues or hot topic to report?

Colin: Is there anything anyone wants to bring up from IETF 121? Are there any hot topics or any issues that people want to talk about?

## AOB
    - Diversity travel grant applications for IETF 122 open until 9th December
    - Reviewing for ANRP 2025 underway. We received 69 submissions compared to 59 last year, 65 the year before, so we should hopefully have a good programme.
    - ANRW 2025 chairs will be Anna Brunström and Ryan Beckett. Need to organise Steering Committee call to move forward on organisation.

Colin: First of all, diversity travel grants for Bangkok applications are open till 9 December, so thank you to everyone who volunteered to help with those. Please point people  at the applications if you know anyone who would be suitable for one of those. Is everything under control there?

Jenny: We already have about two or three applicants. 

Colin: Okay. Otherwise, ANRP reviews for next year are ongoing. We got 69 submissions compared to 59 last year, 65 the year before, so that looks to be on track and hopefully we'll have some good award papers and we have chairs for ANRW and we need to arrange a planning call to sort that out but things are progressing on all of those. 

