---
title: 2025-12-16 IRSG Minutes
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-16T17:33:01.296Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-16T17:33:01.296Z
---

# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference December 16, 2025
## Administrivia
## Attendance

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Morgan Condie (IETF Secretariat)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
Jörg Ott (SPACERG Chair)
Colin Perkins (At-Large Member)
Alvaro Retana (RASPRG Chair)
Brian Trammell (PANRG Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

## Bash the agenda

### Approval of past telechat minutes
The minutes from October 28th have 1 OK, so they are approved.
## IRSG Action Items
#### DONE:
(none)
#### IN PROGRESS:
(none)
#### NEW:
Upcoming - CFRG document

## Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue

### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
- Draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-guidance
Review in progress by Jane Coffin
- Draft-irtf-iccrg-ledbat-plus-plus
Review in progress by Brian Trammell

These were reviewed and Dirk Kutscher is checking in on the updates.

### In IRTF Chair Review
None
## Discussion Topics
### Travel Grants update (Dirk & Morgan)
- We had 5 grantees that accepted the diversity travel grant for IETF 125 in Shenzhen. Thank you for everyone that reviewed and for all the great feedback. 

- Based on the feedback, we have decided to open the application up to Masters students and will be auto rejecting those that have received 3 or more travel grants. We will also be looking into using HotCRP for IETF 126 travel grant applications and intend to split up the applications, so that individual reviewers do not have to assess all applications. 

- Looking for additional sponsors.

- Discussion around Letters of Support and asking more specific questions for applicants adivosrs to answer. 


### CoNEXT INET4AI report and new RG group planning (Dirk)

https://irtf-net4ai.github.io/inet4ai/program.html
https://dl.acm.org/doi/proceedings/10.1145/3769695

Dirk Kutscher updated on the workshop in Hong Kong. This workshop provided visibility into the IRTF. 

The topic of side meetings came up in relation to RG group planning. The issue that keeps coming up is the side meetings applicable to RG's are during meeting times of research groups, not allowing for attendance by the IRTF Chair or RG Chairs. 
- Discussion around proposing a meeting, possibly after the IRTF Open, that meets once to discuss something. 
- Possibly a HotIRTF or dedicated session to dicuss new topics. 
- Another suggestion included topics being passed through the IRTF Chair, prior to the opening of side meetings, allowing for a more structured approach and hopefully solving for scheduling conflicts. 


### IRTF RGs at IETF-125 (Dirk)
- SPACERG, 2 talks already confirmed from local experts.
- GAIA
- RASPRG
- DINRG
- PANRG, not sure yet.
- T2TRG, both chairs won’t be there, so we will not be hosting a meeting in Shenzhen. 

Dirk Kutscher mentioned that if you have ideas for an IRTF open talk, please reach out. Previously we had talks on newly charted groups but of course we can do other things. We can also spotlight one of our research groups that has had a breakthrough. 


### AOB
Next meeting: 27 January
- JOIN WEBEX MEETING
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m14f87ba0879c53da5c7fe2b2ba506cc7
Meeting number (access code): 2423 599 9397
Meeting password: 1234
