---
title: 2025-10-28 IRSG Minutes
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-28T19:27:54.093Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-28T19:05:57.994Z
---

# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference October 28, 2025
## Administrivia
## Attendance

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Morgan Condie (IETF Secretariat)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Ari Keränen (T2TRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
Colin Perkins (At-Large Member)
Eve Schooler (SUSTAIN Chair)
Rod Van Meter (QIRG Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

## Bash the agenda

### Approval of past telechat minutes
Minutes from September 23 are in the wiki; and has 2 OKs. These are approved.
## IRSG Action Items
#### DONE:
(none)
#### IN PROGRESS:
(none)
#### NEW:
(none)

## Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue

### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
- Draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-guidance
Revieew in progress by Jane Coffin
- Draft-irtf-iccrg-ledbat-plus-plus
Review in progress by Brian Trammell

### In IRTF Chair Review
None
## Discussion Topics
### IRSG Reviews
Dirk Kutscher mentioned that the last document sat in review for a period of time, and it would be good to rework how we go about this. Instead of a rotation, we want those with expertise on the topic to volunteer for the review. Colin Perkins mentioned it would be helpful to understand what review is required, ie technical detail or light read. 
 
### Overview of new research group proposals and IRTF-related side meetings at IETF-124

Highlights of some potentially applicable side meetings to the IRSG.

- T2TRG: is not meeting since they’ve had a series of interim meetings but is open for discussions if people want to talk. There is one question they might continue discussion on LLM’s and AI subjects. 


- DIN and Semantic Inference: Invite you to check it out if you’re interested. We are getting many proposals in this Distributed field right now and would be a good topic to work on but need some time to think on it and figure out productive output. Hoping the meeting and discussions will bring us a little further in this direction. Should think of some research questions vs. chasing hype. Potential to become a working group but with the right chairs to help focus the discussion.


- AI Network: Pretty broad but they mentioned the IRTF in their announcement. 


- ARMOR: Resilience and overcoming communication blocks on the internet. If you have time, I’d recommend attending. Would be focusing on technology which would set it aside from other groups. 


- Proactive Analytics and Intelligence for Network Protection (PAIN-P): This is about finding new ways to react with modern technology. There is a lot of support for this topic but what extent is this network management and could it be discussed in an RG.


### IRTFOPEN at IETF-124
- ANRP speakers Jake Ginesin & Agarwal Saksham

- Renata Teixeira to speak about Video Streaming over Starlink related to SPACERG.

### IRTF RG reviews with the IAB
Dirk Kutscher mentioned that if you think you want to discuss something with the IAB, he can schedule something. There isn't currently a required frequency for meeting with the IAB on research groups. Will work on scheduling time with the IAB to discuss QIRG in Shenzhen.

If you have a breakthrough or something you’d like to inform the greater community, we have time after the ANRP talks where we could add a little something.  


### IETF Website on Registration
Eve Schooler wanted to gage reactions to the language that is on the IETF website in regards to registration, due to a speaker for the IRSG not applying for a fee waiver because it mentions fee waivers aren't for speakers. Colin Perkins mentioned that the reason this is, is that there is a separate policy in place for speakers that allows for a single session waiver for speakers. The IRSG can request single session passes for remote guest speakers.

Cost of remote participation has become really high, especially for academics. Encouraged to weigh in on the discussion on the mailing list.

### IESG Note Well Update

Colin Perkins brought up that the IESG updated the note well and was wondering if the equivalent needs to be done for the IRSG. Dirk Kutscher will meet with Jay in Montreal to discuss if an update is needed or if the IRSG needs a separate note well. 

### IRSG Dinner at IETF-124
Don't forget to RSVP by EOD today, October 28, 2025.

### AOB
Next meeting: 25 November
- JOIN WEBEX MEETING
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m14f87ba0879c53da5c7fe2b2ba506cc7
Meeting number (access code): 2423 599 9397
Meeting password: 1234
