---
title: 2025-09-23 IRSG Minutes
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T02:43:21.979Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-23T21:39:42.089Z
---

# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference September 23, 2025
## Administrivia
## Attendance

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Morgan Condie (IETF Secretariat)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
JÃ©ferson Nobre (NMRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Alvaro Retana (RASPRG Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)

## Bash the agenda
ANRW update - added chairs
### Approval of past telechat minutes
Minutes from August 26 are in the wiki; and has 2 OKs. These are approved.
## IRSG Action Items
#### DONE:
- Morgan Condie, Allison Mankin, Eve Schooler, Stephen Farrell, Colin Perkins, and Ignacio Castro to discuss improvements to the travel grant process.

Will be implementing a google form for the travel grant applicaion moving forward and will update the process to reflect this change for IETF 125. Moved to done. We can revisit after the next round of travel grants.

#### IN PROGRESS:
(none)
#### NEW:
(none)

## Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
- draft-irtf-nmrg-green-ps
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat

### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
- Draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead

Jane is working on it and Dirk Kutscher is hoping we can move on this soon.

### In IRTF Chair Review
None
## Discussion Topics
### Proposed SPACE RG Update
- https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/space/about/

SPACE RG has narrowed its scope and been more explicit about what this group will do. 

The SPACE RG will be marked as an Active group in the Datatracker and the word "Proposed" will be added to the long version of the group title. 
(There isn't an obvious way to flag a PRG as proposed in the Datatracker, since the "Proposed" group state more closely aligns with IETF WGs and their chartering process.)

SPACE RG is looking for a keynote speaker for the IRTF Open.
 
### New proposed work on reproducibility

Proposed Artifacts, Baselines, and Grand Challenges as a new research group focused on data sets and tooling for experiments, seeking initial feedback from the group. Alvaro Retana suggested a more general research group. Dirk Kutscher then proposed an alternative committee similar to ANRP and suggested sponsorships or prizes. Dirk mentioned that this needs more discussion and asked everyone to please take another look and discuss on the main list.   

### Stable author IDs
- https://github.com/irtf-chair/authorid

Dirk Kutscher updated the spec on github. Hasn't received any feedback since then. Let us know if there is feedback, otherwise we can promote this and encourage the authors to follow.

### ARMOR Activity
Research on getting internet communication through firewalls and communication blockers. Discussion around if this should be a research group or could be. There is an armor mailing list you can join if interested. Looks like there will be a side meeting in Montreal, it would be great if you could attend it.

### IRSG Dinner at IETF 124
Have a volunteer to help plan the dinner for IETF 124 - Marie-Jose Monpetit


### AOB
Next meeting: 28 October