---
title: IRSG Teleconference April 29, 2025
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-05-23T00:27:47.909Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-05-23T00:27:47.909Z
---


# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference on April 29, 2025

## Administrivia
### Attendance 

 Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
 Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
 Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
 Michelle Cotton (IETF Secretariat)
 Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
 Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
 Jerome Francois (NMRG Chair)
 Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
 Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
 Allison Mankin (PEARG Chair)
 Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
 Colin Perkins (At-Large Member)
 Ali Rezaki (SUSTAIN Chair)
 Eve Schooler (SUSTAIN Chair)
 Michael Welzl (SUSTAIN Chair)
 Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)


### Approval of past telechat minutes

The IRSG has approved the February 25, 2025 minutes.


## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
(none)
#### IN PROGRESS: 
(none)
#### NEW: 
- Michelle Cotton, Allison Mankin, Eve Schooler, Stephen Farrell, and Ignacio Castro to discuss improvements to the travel grant process.



## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat
- draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct
- draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases
- draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque
- draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-properties



### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
None
### In IRTF Chair Review 

- draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead

Dirk is ready to move this along to IRSG Review and will do so shortly.


## Discussion Topics
### Diversity Travel Grant Update

Michelle Cotton reported that 8 travel grants were offered for IETF 123 and all were accepted. The process needs a little refinement; Allison, Eve, Stephen, Colin, and Ignacio volunteered to discuss improvements.



### IRTF Education and Promotion Activities

Dirk Kutscher has been working on a slide deck that he can present at conferences, etc, and invited IRSG chairs to create a slide for their RGs if they want him to include information about their group. 

Dirk is also thinking about increasing awareness of the ANRW and the group brainstormed several other venues and methods to boost interest.




### IRTFOPEN format

IRTFOPEN sessions are quite popular and award winners give very interesting presentations; but there is often a little time leftover in those sessions that isn't used. Several suggestions were made: rotate slots in IRTFOPEN for certain RGs, discuss potential new IRTF work, or request a second IRTFOPEN session for other topics that don't include prize award talks. The group discussed several ideas and will continue thinking about this for future meetings.


### New potential IRTF work

Dirk reported that a side meeting about SPACE was held in Bangkok and there may be a potential new RG in that area. 

## Any Other Business

Carsten brought up the issue of making sure authors of RFCs are reachable over time. He wondered if Orcid or something similar would be a good idea. Lixia Zhang and Colin Perkins offered to help if Carsten explores this further.





