---
title: 2025-05-27 IRSG Minutes
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-06-09T20:56:43.536Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-06-09T20:56:43.536Z
---


# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference on May 27, 2025

## Administrivia
### Attendance 

 Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
 Michelle Cotton (IETF Secretariat)
 Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
 Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
 Ari Keränen (T2TRG Chair)
 Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
 Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
 Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
 Colin Perkins (At-Large Member)
 Ali Rezaki (SUSTAIN Chair)
 Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)


### Approval of past telechat minutes

Minutes from the April telechat were posted late and need more review time; they will be approved at the next meeting.


## IRSG Action Items 

#### DONE: 
(none)
#### IN PROGRESS: 

- Michelle Cotton, Allison Mankin, Eve Schooler, Stephen Farrell, Colin Perkins, and Ignacio Castro to discuss improvements to the travel grant process.

#### NEW: 




## Tracked Documents 

### In RFC Editor Queue

- draft-irtf-nmrg-green-ps
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat
- draft-irtf-coinrg-use-cases
- draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque



### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews

- draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead-16


### In IRTF Chair Review 

- draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead

Dirk is ready to move this along to IRSG Review and will do so shortly.


## Discussion Topics
### Diversity Travel Grant Update

The group working on improvements to the travel grant process will meet tomorrow. 


### Proposed SPACE RG

Dirk Kutscher thanked everyone who was reviewed the SPACE RG proposal; he has summarized all the comments received to discuss with the proponents and is waiting to hear back from them. 


### Stable author IDs in RFCs (ORCID discussion)
There has been some discussion of encouraging the use of stable author IDs in documents, for example ORCID IDs. This field can already be filled out in a Datatracker profile, so the question is whether to just encourage people to use it or write out a more involved plan. Dirk Kutcher will take the lead, Colin Perkins to assist.


### Side Meeting on networking for AI at IETF 123

Rather than attempt a second IRTFOPEN session during a meeting when ANRW will be squeezing the IRTF agenda, Dirk will encourage a side meeting for the people interested in networking for AI. Part of the purpose of the side meeting would be to clarify the scope. 


## Any Other Business





