---
title: 2025-08-26 IRSG Minutes
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-08-26T23:27:07.416Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-08-26T23:23:22.941Z
---

# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference August 26, 2025
## Administrivia
## Attendance

Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Morgan Condie (IETF Secretariat)
Michelle Cotton (IETF Secretariat)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Mirja Kühlewind (MAPRG Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
Jéferson Nobre (NMRG Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Colin Perkins (At-Large Member)
Eve Schooler (SUSTAIN Chair)
Rod Van Meter (QIRG Chair)

## Bash the agenda
### Approval of past telechat minutes
Minutes from the April and May meeting have been approved. 
## IRSG Action Items
#### DONE:
(none) 
#### IN PROGRESS:
- Morgan Condie, Allison Mankin, Eve Schooler, Stephen Farrell, Colin Perkins, and Ignacio Castro to discuss improvements to the travel grant process.

Will leave In Progress and give a week’s time to review and see if anything else comes up. This is a good time to collect all the observations and improve the process. 
#### NEW:
(none)

## Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
- draft-irtf-nmrg-green-ps
- draft-irtf-cfrg-kangarootwelve
- draft-fluhrer-lms-more-parm-sets
- draft-irtf-iccrg-rledbat
### In IRSG Final Poll
None
### In IESG Conflict Review
None
### In IRSG Reviews
- Draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead

Jane Coffin is reviewing this document.

### In IRTF Chair Review
None
## Discussion Topics
### IETF-123 RG minutes

DINRG & GAIA, have not submitted session minutes from IETF 123; please do so! 
### Stable author IDs in RFC

Dirk Kutscher summarized the email discussion on stable author IDs in RFCs. Based on that, the question remains if only one scheme should be presented or if it needs to be more flexible. The general consensus is for making it simple. Dirk mentioned he would include the proposed change and anyone who would like to co-author to let him know. 
### Future RGs

Dirk Kutscher mentioned that he will be giving SPACERG a slot at Montreal due to the success of the side meeting on this proposal during Madrid. Discussion on outcomes of the group and what needs to be stated in the charter. Dirk suggested a continued conversation by email.
### IRTFOPEN @ IETF-124

IRTF Open for 123 highlighted the ANRW winners and guest speakers. Looking to do something like this again for Montreal. Dirk Kutscher suggested having someone from the SPACERG community. Other suggestions are also welcome.
### Travel grants for IETF 124



Offers were extended to five applicants and all were accepted. One concern that came up through the process was the same people coming again and again for the diversity grants. Dirk is looking for more sponsors to increase the budget a little bit, and asked for any suggestions of sponsors or contacts who might be able to help. 
### AOB

Colin Perkins submitted a new revision of draft-perkins-role-of-irtf just before IETF 123. He suggested that if other IRSG members are interested, to think about publication. 
