---
title: 2026-02-25
description: 
published: true
date: 2026-02-25T18:59:35.438Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2026-02-25T18:49:38.889Z
---

# Minutes of the IRSG Teleconference February 25, 2026
## Administrivia
## Attendance


Carsten Bormann (T2TRG Chair)
Ignacio Castro (RASPRG Chair)
Jane Coffin (GAIA Chair)
Morgan Condie (IETF Secretariat)
Stephen Farrell (UFMRG Chair)
Liz Flynn (IETF Secretariat)
Mallory Knodel (HRPC Chair)
Dirk Kutscher (IRTF Chair)
Dave Oran (ICNRG Chair)
Eve Schooler (SUSTAIN Chair)
Lixia Zhang (DINRG Chair)


## Bash the agenda

### Approval of past telechat minutes
The minutes from January 27 have 5 OK’s, so they are approved.

## IRSG Action Items
#### DONE:
(none)
#### IN PROGRESS:
(none)
#### NEW: 

* Accelerate document process (Dirk)
Dirk Kutscher mentioned that we need to speed up the review process for IRSG documents. Currently we are asking for volunteers and waiting for reviews. Previously we had a rolling list. Looking into implementing a new process. 

## Tracked Documents
### In RFC Editor Queue
None

### In IRSG Last Call
- draft-irtf-cfrg-aead-limits
- draft-irtf-t2trg-taxonomy-manufacturer-anchors
- draft-irtf-cfrg-dnhpke

### In IESG Conflict Review
None

### In IRSG Reviews
- draft-irtf-iccrg-ledbat-plus-plus 
This document went through review and was voted on earlier. The RG had additional changes. Went back to Brian Trammell to review changes before it goes to IRSG ballot.
- draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-guidance
Review in progress by Jane. Jane confirmed that this should be completed by EOW.
- draft-irtf-cfrg-cpace 
Stephen Farrell volunteered to review.

### In IRTF Chair Review
None

### Finished IESG Conflict Review
- draft-irtf-cfrg-aegis-aead
aegis is ready to go and be sent to the RFC editor. CFRG is continuing to produce quit a few documents that we need to review quicker. 

Dave Oran mentioned that draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxchunking will be entering IRSG review and needs to be added to the queue.

## Discussion Topics
### IRTFOPEN special session on Internetworking Challenges for AI at IETF-125
The idea is to figure out IRTF research directions for (inter-) networking for AI. We will have a few talks and then some discussion on potential next steps.

The tentative list of talks:

- talk by Mingxing Zhang (Moonshot / Kimi K2) on their KV-cache-centric architecture
- talk by Qing LI / Guorui Xie (Peng Cheng Lab) on protocol research for distributed AI
- talk by Artur Douillard on “DiLoCo: Distributed Low-Communication Training of Language Models”
- talk by Lixia Zhang on agent communication

TODO: Label this IRTFOPEN session as “Internetworking Challenges for AI” on the IETF meeting agenda. Liz Flynn will take care of this by EOD.


This meeting will take place on Tuesday, March 17 at 09:00. Due to speaker availability, this meeting must take place on Tuesday vs. Wednesday. Dirk Kutscher mentioned it would be great to have the IRSG there to support. 


### HKUST Internet Research Workshop on Friday before IETF-125

https://hkirw.github.io/2026/

* Open discussion on new ideas. If you’d like to join, sign up. 


### Travel grant updates

We opened the submission system for IETF-126 
* https://www.irtf.org/travelgrants/

Dates:
- Diversity grant application deadline March 27, 2026
- Diversity grant notification deadline April 15, 2026
- IETF-126 Meeting in Vienna July 18-24, 2026

Want to enlarge the selection committee – let us know if you are interested.
* Dave Oran and Ignacio Castro volunteered to help.

We moved things to HotCRP for a smoother process.

### AOB
* IRSG Dinner- Don’t forget to fill out the registration form letting us know if you will be attending.
https://forms.gle/1YEGAuyYtdkUhGSS7

* Next meeting: 24 March
JOIN WEBEX MEETING
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m14f87ba0879c53da5c7fe2b2ba506cc7
Meeting number (access code): 2423 599 9397
Meeting password: 1234
