---
title: IETF 103 - Bangkok, TH
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-09T20:47:43.111Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-06T02:58:39.708Z
---

# IETF 103 - Bangkok, Thailand
To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have an IETF datatracker account, you may get one by going here https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/ and requesting a new account.

## Meeting Venue
### Airport Transportation
There are two International Airports that serve the city of Bangkok. Suvarnabhumi Bangkok International Airport (BKK) and Don Mueang International Airport (DMK).

**Suvarnabhumi Bangkok International Airport (BKK)**
[Airport Web site](https://www.bangkokairportonline.com/)
Airport Phone: +66 2 132 1888
Hotel direction: 17.0 miles NW
The IETF 103 venue does not provide shuttle service.
**NOTE:** There are ATMs located immediately upon exiting customs at Suvarnabhumi Bangkok International Airport.

The [Airport Rail Link](http://srtet.co.th/) provides train service from the airport, connecting to the SkyTrain? (below) at Phaya Thai station for 45 baht (7 stops, 26 minutes). The closest airport rail link station to the hotel is Makkasan, if one wants to take a taxi from there instead of taking the BTS.

Alternate transportation:
Bangkok Marriott Marquis Limo Service; fee: 1500 THB (one way) ;reservation required
VIP Taxi - metered taxi, estimated fare 600-700 including expressway tolls; VIP Taxis accept credit cards (tolls are added to meter, and paid with credit card)
- VIP Taxi counter, Level 1, gate 3 (entrance 3), middle lane
- Credit card accepted, fares are metered only, tolls added to meter

Estimated metered taxi fare: 400-600 THB (one way) incl expressway tolls (see below). NOTE: Taxis are cash only (no cards accepted)
- Contact Taxi counter, Level 1 – Ground Level, near entrances 3, 4, 7 and 8.
- Receive a ticket from a taxi queue machine, proceed to the lane number printed on your ticket.
- Taxi fare: metered taxi fare plus 50 Baht airport surcharge, and expressway fees. NOTE driver expects you to hand him cash while approaching the toll booth that he uses to pay with. Total tolls typically end up around total 100 baht for a trip from BKK airport to downtown Bangkok.

Driving directions:
Exit the airport and take the expressway in the direction of Bangkok. From the expressway, take Sukhumvit exit and turn left onto Sukhumvit Rd. Continue straight then turn right into Soi 22. The hotel is on the left. Phrom Phong BTS skytrain station is located on Sukhumvit Rd, 400 meters from hotel, walking across Benjasiri Park. Take Exit 6 from the station.

**Don Mueang International Airport (DMK)**
[Airport Web site.](https://www.donmueangairport.com/)
Airport Phone: +66 2 535 1192
Hotel direction: 14.8 miles SE
The IETF 103 venue does not provide shuttle service.
Alternate transportation: AOT; fee: 1200 THB (one way) ;reservation required
Estimated taxi fare: 400 THB (one way) NOTE: Taxis are cash only (no cards accepted)
Driving directions:
Exit the airport and take the expressway in the direction of Bangkok. From the expressway, take Sukhumvit exit and turn left onto Sukhumvit Rd. Continue straight then turn right into Soi 22. The hotel is on the left. Phrom Phong BTS skytrain station is located on Sukhumvit Rd, 400 meters from hotel, walking across Benjasiri Park. Take Exit 6 from the station.

## Arrival Coordination
[Arrival Coordination](/meeting/103/ArrivalCorodination)

## Departure Coordination
[Departure Coordination](/meeting/103/DepartureCoordination)

## Side Meetings
As [communicated earlier](https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/ietf/current/msg107813.html) this year, the IESG is experimenting with a new agenda structure at 103.

At IETF 103 there will be a number of meeting rooms available for [side meetings](/meeting/103/sidemeetings). Please note that all meetings in these rooms are subject to the [IETF Meeting Room Policy](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/meeting-rooms-policy/). Monday through Thursday there are two rooms available for side meetings; the rooms are available for first-come, first-served signup online. Please provide a point of contact and a meeting description. The larger of the two will hold approximately 40 people and will be configured with a U-shaped table. The smaller room will be configured as a boardroom and will hold approximately 12 people.

On Friday there are eight rooms available for side meetings, and the wiki table is broken down into 1-hour time slots. If your meeting will be longer than one hour, please make sure to fill in additional table fields.

All rooms will have projectors. Side meetings will not be supported by Meetecho.

[View](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/103/side-meetings/) an embedded calendar of side meetings.

[Subscribe](https://trac.tools.ietf.org/agenda/103/sidemeetings.ics) to the side meeting calendar.

[Reserve a room for a side meeting](/meeting/103/sidemeetings).

## Remote Hubs
Remote participation is available individually or from a Remote participation Hub.

[Remote Hubs](/meeting/103/RemoteHubs)

## Hackathon and Code Lounge
[Hackathon](/meeting/103/hackathon)

[Hackdemo Happy Hour Sign-up](/meeting/103/hackdemo)

[Code Lounge](/meeting/103/CodeLounge) The Code Lounge utilizes part of the IETF Lounge, Room: Sala Thai

## Language
IETF Language Buttons

## Public Transportation and Area Maps
The [SkyTrain](http://www.bangkok.com/bts/) is an excellent alternative to taking taxis in Bangkok. It is inexpensive, efficient, clean and air conditioned. Please note the self service ticket machines only take coins, however there are many manned booths that will assist you and give you change for paper baht. Traffic in Bangkok is challenging and the SkyTrain? is a way to avoid congestion at peak hours.

The IETF Meeting Venue (Marriott Marquis Queen's Park) is closest to the Skytrain Phrom Phong BTS station, exit 6 (a short walk through Benjisiri Park to the hotel); and the Subway Metro Sukhumvit Station.

## Self-tour
### Getting Around (to and from the Meeting Venue)
Normal taxis can be hailed down on the street. By Thai law, the driver must provide a metered trip, which starts at 35 baht and includes 2km distance (not including time based charge). It's not uncommon for drivers to try to sell fixed-price trips that widely exceed the metered price would be. It's also common to tell the driver where you want to go before getting into the taxi. It's illegal for the driver to refuse (typically because of traffic), but this is not uncommon.
Uber and an app called "Grab" are also available to order a taxi, good for pre-order.
Traffic can be horrendous in the area around the hotel, and in rush hour it can take an hour to travel a few km. Use public transportation in rush hour if available. In the "Soi:s" (side streets) there is motorcycle based transportation available. This is typically 10-30 baht, and one gets up on the back of a motorcycle and then they drive you where you need to go. They will typically not drive you long distances, these motorcycle drivers work per Soi and typically ferry people up and down the Soi.

## Exercise
## Running Trails:
## Hiking:
## Events
## ATMs & Money Conversion
The local currency is the Baht. $1 is about 32 baht, 1€ is about 37 baht.

There are ATMs located immediately upon exiting customs at Suvarnabhumi Bangkok International Airport.

There is an ATM in the lobby of the Marriott Marquis Queen's Park.

It's very common for the local ATM operator to add 220 baht (about $7 or 6€) to each money withdrawal from ATM. Credit card transactions when purchasing things directly in stores with credit card do not carry these fees. It's also common for the local bank to offer to convert currency and charge in your local currency. Typically this conversion rate will be a lot worse than your local bank, so general rule is to refuse any such conversion.

## Self-Service Laundry
## Electrical Plug / Outlet
[Electrical Plug and Outlet Information for Thailand](https://www.lonelyplanet.com/thailand/electricity).

## Electronics
### Cellphones / Data
Take your phone and your passport and proceed to a nearby 7-11. Walk either direction from the Marriott and there's one within a block.

They have a variety of SIM packs. Get the one from dtac that costs 49 baht (about $1.50) and says 4G on the front. The clerk will use an app on her phone to take pictures of your passport and of the SIM pack. This gets you a local phone number and basic service. Then buy 100 baht ($3) of topup. Use it to buy the 100Mb/sec 2GB package for 99 baht, good for a week, by calling *104*342*9# from your phone. If you're here for more than a week, buy more credit and it'll renew automatically every week.

If 2GB isn't enough, 5G/wk is 149 baht. Top up, then call *104*315*9#

You can purchase (passport/ID needed at purchase time) an AIS prepaid card at an AIS / Televiz store with a balance (Televiz stores at malls and at the airport). Then you can use the following USSD codes to purchase Internet access over mobile. AIS offers dual stack on Apple devices.
4 megabit/s all day 29baht *777*7149#
34 baht 1 days, unlimited 6 megabit/s *777*7209#
189 baht 7 days, unlimited 6 megabit/s *777*7210#
150 baht 7 days, unlimited 4 megabit/s *777*7154#
450 baht 30 days, unlimited 4 megabit/s *777*7155#
550 baht 30 days, unlimited 6 megabit/s *777*7211#
## Supermarkets
Supermarket with organic produce located in the Emporium Mall 4th floor, a five minute walk from the Marriott Marquis Queen's Park https://www.emporium.co.th/dining/

## Restaurants
### HALAL
[Usman Thai Muslim Food](https://www.facebook.com/usmanthaimuslimfood/) 59/9-10 Sukhumvit Soi 22 Klongton Klongteoy Bangkok

### Vegetarian-Vegan
[Veganerie Concept Vegan Bakery](https://www.facebook.com/VeganBakeryBangkok/) located behind Benjasiri Park

### Restaurants
[Dining options](https://www.emporium.co.th/en/dining/) in the Emporium Mall, behind the IETF Meeting Venue, through the Benjasiri Park and occupying three buildings off the pedestrian bridge over Sukhumvit Road under the Phrom Phong Skytrain station. This is a short list of places to find food in the Emporium Mall Complex:

The Gourmet Market and The Foodhall, fourth floor of The Emporium.
The Helix Dining, the 7-9 floors in the Helix Quartier of EmQuartier?. This area has many many different restaurants of many many different varieties.
## Espresso, Coffee, and Tea
## Weather 
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

---

*The content of this page was last updated on 2018-11-04. It was migrated from the old Trac wiki on 2023-02-05.*