---
title: IETF 107 - Online
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-16T00:46:09.656Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-16T00:08:45.488Z
---

# IETF 107 - Vancouver, BC, Canada 

*This meeting was originally planned to be held in Vancouver, BC, Canada in March 2020 and was moved to a remote meeting with short notice.*

## Meeting Venue

The Hyatt Regency Vancouver
655 Burrard St,
Vancouver, BC V6C 2R7,
Canada
## Airport Transportation

[Vancouver International Airport](http://www.yvr.ca/en/Default.aspx)

### General Information

Most passengers arriving from International & U.S. destinations, not connecting to another destination, will come to the Public Greeting Area in the International Terminal after clearing the customs and immigration processes and collecting their baggage.

Most passengers arriving from Canadian destinations, not connecting to another destination or arriving at YVR’s South Terminal, will come to the Public Greeting Area in the Domestic Terminal. This area includes the baggage carousels for arriving passengers.

A good, obvious meeting spot for all arrivals (for ride share ease) is the The Spirit of Haida Gwaii, The Jade Canoe sculpture. Located in the centre of YVR’s International Terminal, at six metres long and four meters high, its presence is hard to miss. With tiered benches all around the sculpture, the Haida Gwaii is a natural gathering and meeting point.

### Taxis

More than 500 licensed taxis currently serve the airport, including wheelchair accessible taxis.

Taxis are a quick and easy way to get to and from Vancouver International Airport. Our taxis are available 24-hours a day, seven days a week. Taxis charge a metered rate based on time and distance. The approximate fare to downtown Vancouver is between CAD$32-$35 (taxes included). No reservations are required for mini-vans or wheelchair accessible taxis. Let the curbside staff know your needs and they’ll get the right vehicle. Arriving from Canada on a domestic flight and need a taxi?

If you have just arrived and are picking up luggage, you are located in the Domestic Terminal Arrivals, Level 2. Simply make your way outside of the terminal on Level 2 to the taxi stand.

Arriving from the U.S.A or an international destination and need a taxi?

Once through the customs and immigration process, you’ll enter the International Arrivals Greeting Area. Walk outside the building on the same level and look for the taxi stand.

All taxis who pick up passengers from the airport are fully licensed and all drivers must complete a training course in safe driving, customer service and helping people with special needs.

### Public Transportation

[Canada Line Skytrain](http://www.thecanadaline.com/index.tsp)

The Canada Line is Vancouver’s new rapid transit rail link connecting YVR to downtown Vancouver in 26 minutes and to downtown Richmond in 18 minutes. It’s a fast and easy way to get to the city centres. You can conveniently access trains from both the International and Domestic Terminals. Arriving from within Canada?

If you’re picking up checked bags, you are at Arrivals, level 2 of the Domestic Terminal. Go to Level 3, and walk toward the Link Building (located in between the International and Domestic Terminal). Follow the signs marked Canada Line or ask any of our Customer Care staff in red or green vests for assistance.

### Arriving from the U.S.A or an international destination?

Once through the customs and immigration arrivals process, walk toward the exit to our International Arrivals Greeting Area. Exit the building following signs marked Canada Line. Before the parkade entrance, an escalator and elevator will take you up to the Canada Line platform.

### Fares

PLEASE NOTE: All transit users traveling on the Canada Line leaving Vancouver International Airport will be subject to a $5 Canada Line YVR AddFare in addition to the regular zone fare. Anyone using prepaid fares, such as DayPasses, FareCards, FaresSaver Tickets, U-Passes, Employer Passes and the BC Government Bus Pass Program will be exempt from the Canada Line YVR AddFare, and the AddFare only applies when traveling from the airport, not when going to the airport.

DayPasses, Monthly FareCards and FareSaver Tickets are available for purchase at the airport 7 Eleven and Pharmasave in the Domestic Terminal, Arrivals level, 1 or any FareSaver dealer in Metro Vancouver.

The Canada Line YVR AddFare is being levied and collected by Translink. The Airport Authority receives no portion of the money collected from the Canada Line YVR AddFare.

### To get to the IETF 107 Meeting Venue (Hyatt Regency Vancouver, 655 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2R7) via the Canada Line Train 
Take the Canada Line Skytrain from YVR-Airport to Waterfront Station, transfer to the Millenium or Expo line for one stop to Burrard Street Station. Exit the station and the Hyatt is across the street (Melville Street).

Alternatively, take the Canada Line Skytrain from YVR-Airport to Vancouver City Centre Station and walk northwest up West Georgia Street three blocks to the Hyatt Regency Vancouver hotel.
## Arrival Coordination

[Arrivals Coordination](/meeting/107/arrivals)
## Departure Coordination

Departures Coordination

## Side Meetings

With the cancellation of the face-to-face IETF 107 meeting in Vancouver, there are no IETF-supported side meetings taking place during the virtual IETF 107 meeting week.

Guidelines:

  -  Meetings held in attendee sign-up rooms are normally open for anyone to attend. Holding a meeting in one of these rooms that is not open for anyone to attend requires prior AD approval.
  -  Meetings held in these rooms are subject to the IETF Meeting Rooms Policy [https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/meeting-rooms-policy/] and the Secretariat will monitor usage for compliance.
 -   Please include the name of a contact person when you reserve a room.
 -   The IETF Note Well applies to side meetings.
 -   Please do not collect blue sheets for side meetings; blue sheets are only produced for official WG sessions 

## Remote Hubs

Remote participation is available individually or from a Remote participation Hub.

Remote Hubs?
## Hackathon and Code Lounge

[Hackathon](/meeting/107/hackathon)

Hackdemo Happy Hour Sign-up (cancelled)

Code Lounge (cancelled)

## Language

The official languages of Canada are English and French; the official language of the province of Québec is French. In the 2011 Census, 94.4% of the population reported being able to speak French, and 47.3% reported being able to speak English.

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons)
## Public Transportation and Area Maps
## Self-tour
## Getting Around (to and from the Meeting Venue)
## Exercise
## Running Trails:

## Hiking:
## Events
## ATMs & Money Conversion

The currency of Vancouver, BC, Canada is the Canadian Dollar (CAD $). There are multiple places at the airport to exchange currency. The Vancouver Airport ICE Currency Exchange are open 24 hours. [Locations of ICE Currency Exchange at the airport.](http://www.yvr.ca/en/shopping-dining-services/Banking-Currency-Exchange/ICE-Currency-Services.aspx)

[Currency Conversion Tool](http://www.xe.com/ucc/)
## Electrical Plug / Outlet

[Electric Plug and Outlet Information for Canada](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/canada/)
## Electronics
## Cellphones / Data
## Supermarkets
## Restaurants
## Espresso, Coffee, and Tea
## Weather

[Current Weather Conditions, Vancouver, BC, Canada](https://www.wunderground.com/weather/ca/vancouver)
## Photos
## Post office
## Regrets

[Travel Restrictions](/meeting/107/travelrestrictions) 