---
title: IETF 122 Bangkok, Thailand
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-12-04T17:58:10.665Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-10-24T19:30:06.075Z
---

# IETF 122 :thailand: Bangkok, Thailand 
*To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF Datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have one, you may [create an IETF Datatracker account](https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/).*

## Meeting Venue
**Marriott Marquis Queen's Park**
199 Sukhumvit Alley 22, 
Khlong Tan, Khlong Toei, 
Bangkok 10110, 
Thailand

## Map
The following link is a map of restaurants, attractions, hotels, etc. in the Bangkok area surrounding the IETF venue. 
[IETF 122 Map of Bangkok](<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/embed?mid=1Qe0KZ5BfXxiy9Feb2aq8N1xVp9iYBwE&ehbc=2E312F" width="640" height="480"></iframe>)

## Side Meetings
For more information about public side meetings and to reserve a room, please visit the [side meetings wiki page](/meeting/122/sidemeetings).

## Airport Transportation :airplane:
There are two major airports located in Bangkok; Bangkok Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) and Don Mueang Airport (DMK). Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) is the closer airport to the meeting venue, being located about 1 hour away by car.

Most popular forms of transit to get you for the airport to the IETF meeting venue:
- Taxi Service
- Shuttle Bus
- Airport Rail Link (ARL)
- Private Airport Transfers

### Rideshare :taxi:
Please note that Uber nor Lyft are operating rideshare services in Thailand. The taxi service at BKK is easy to use. The public taxi stand is located on the ground level (level 1) of the airport. To get a taxi, you need to take a ticket from the taxi queue, proceed to the lane number on your ticket. Your taxi will be ready for you or arriving shortly. 

Taxi fares are metered by the traveling distance plus 50 Baht airport surcharge. Taxi drivers must be certified by Aiports of Thailand and operate a taxi less than 5 years old. 

### Customs & Immigration

[Thailand Customs & Immigration](https://www.tourismthailand.org/Articles/plan-your-trip-customs-and-immigration)

Upon arrival in Thailand, foreign citizens must hold a valid passport (with at least six months validity), a valid Thai visa, and proof of onward travel. Visitors from ASEAN, Western countries (including most Europeans), Commonwealth, and North American citizens, are not required to have a Thai visa for visits less than 30 days in Thailand.

Immigration policies are subject to change: check with a Thai Embassy or The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (www.mfa.go.th) for the latest information.

## Arrival Coordination :flight_arrival:
[ArrivalCoordination](/meeting/122/ArrivalCoordination)

## Departure Coordination :flight_departure:
[DepartureCoordination](/meeting/122/DepartureCoordination)

## Language :globe_with_meridians:
Thailand's official language: **Thai**

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons) 

## Money Conversion 
The official (cash) currency of Thailand is the **Thai Baht** (international abbreviation THB฿).

[XE Currency Conversion Website](https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/?Amount=1&From=USD&To=THB)

 ## Electrical Plug / Outlet
[Electrical Plug and Voltage Information for Thailand](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/us/thailand/) 
In Thailand, power plugs and sockets (outlets) of type A, type B, type C, type F and type O are used. You also need a voltage converter. The standard voltage is 220 V at a frequency of 50 Hz.

## Weather :sunny: 
[Current weather conditions in Bangkok, Thailand](https://www.accuweather.com/en/th/bangkok/318849/weather-forecast/318849)
 
## Emergency Assistance
In case of an emergency situation, the emergency number in Thailand is **191**.
A selection of Hospitals have been pinned in the above map.  

## Transportation

- BTS Skytrain (Bangkok Mass Transit System)
- MRT System (Metropolitan Rapid Transit)
- Tuk Tuks
- Boats
- Taxi

The best way to get around Bangkok is by using the BTS Skytrain (Bangkok Mass Transit System) or the MRT (Metro). 

The BTS covers much of central Bangkok, including popular areas like Siam, Sukhumvit, Sathorn, and Silom. The BTS Skytrain is ideal to avoid traffic congestion, connect to major shopping centers and attractions and it is affordable (around 17-62 THB per trip). Consider purchasing a Rabbit Card for convenient, cashless travel on the BTS.

The MRT extends the reach of Bangkok’s public transport network, covering areas not served by the BTS. It is particularly useful for reaching locations like Chinatown, Chatuchak Weekend Market, and the cultural heart of Rattanakosin Island. The advantages of the MRT is that it is air-conditioned, clean, connects with the BTS at several interchange stations, and is affordable (around 16-42 THB per trip). For convenience consider using your Master or Visa to pay for the trip directly by scanning it at the turnstile. This will save you time from queuing at the ticket counter.

#### **Taxi Services**
As additional BTS Skytrain and MRT subway stations are added each year, Bangkok neighborhoods are becoming more connected than ever before. However, the downside is that mass transit systems in Bangkok are becoming increasingly crowded. For this reason many first-time visitors opt for one of the easiest modes of transportation: the taxi. 

Bangkok’s taxi cabs are (sometimes) new, colorful, and (mostly) comfortable. The drivers are generally courteous and helpful making them an excellent and cost effective way to get around.

[How to get a taxi in Bangkok](https://www.thaiembassy.com/travel-to-thailand/bangkok-taxi-tips-how-to-get-a-taxi-in-bangkok)


## Tipping Culture

Tipping in Bangkok is not required or expected but is appreciated. Normally, a service charge will be added to your final bill. The service charge will usually be declared on the menu if you’re in a cafe or restaurant and is paid directly to the company rather than to an individual member of staff.

Here is a simple breakdown of when and how much to tip:

**Restaurants**
- If the restaurant doesn't add a service charge to the bill, a 10% tip is standard, but you can tip up to 15% for exceptional service.

**Bars**
- You can round up the bill or leave a small tip for each drink. If you're at a table and a staff member brings drinks to you, a 10% tip is standard of the total bill. 

**Hotels**
- You can tip 1 TBH per bag if the bell staff helps you with your luggage. You can also tip the same amount if you request bell staff service when checking out. 
- You can leave a 5–10 THB tip in an envelope daily for the room cleaning staff. 

**Taxis**
- It’s common to tip 10% for a longer journey, and if you were helped with your luggage. For shorter journeys the easiest option is to round up the bill to the nearest significant amount in Thai bahts.
	- 50 Thai bahts taxi bill = 5 Thai bahts tip for a longer journey
	- 7.50 Thai bahts taxi bill = 0.50 Thai bahts tip for a short journey

You should always tip in the local currency (THB). Tipping is not mandatory, but is appreciated and could potentially get you better service. 





