---
title: IETF 123 Madrid, Spain
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-02-06T22:29:48.477Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-02-05T20:50:35.591Z
---

# IETF 123 :es: Madrid, Spain 
*To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF Datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have one, you may [create an IETF Datatracker account](https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/).*

## Meeting Venue
**Meliá Castilla**
C. del Poeta Joan Maragall, 
43, Tetuán, 28020 
Madrid, Spain

## Map
The following link is a map of restaurants, attractions, hotels, etc. in the Madrid area surrounding the IETF venue. 
[IETF 123 Map of Madrid](https://www.google.com/maps/d/edit?mid=102JuLhlShMRQjo64ygpH223ifcjkyXc&usp=sharing)

## Side Meetings
For more information about public side meetings and to reserve a room, please visit the [side meetings wiki page](/meeting/123/sidemeetings).

## Airport Transportation :airplane:

- Metro
- Cercanías Train
- Taxi

The most efficient method to reach the IETF venue from the Madrid Airport is by Taxi or rideshare service. If you are looking for a more immersive and cost-effective travel method, you can take the local Metro, Train, or Bus system. 

### Metro

The Madrid Airport is connected to the city of Madrid via the Pink Metro Line 8. This line ends at the Nuevos Ministerios Station, where you would need to transfer to Metro Line 10 is required. The total journey is estimated to be about 45 minutes in travel time and will cost between 4.50€ to 5€. 

The airport has two metro stations; one at Terminal 2 (T2), floor 1, and the other one at Terminal 4 (T4), floor -1. Both are part of the pink line 8. These lines run 06:00 to 01:30.

### Cercanías Train

Madrid Airport is served by two Cercanías train lines: line C-1 (light blue) and line C-10 (light green), both located in Aeropuerto Terminal 4 (T4), floor -1. Take the C1 (light blue) line to the Madrid Chamartin Train Station where you will transfer to the Metro Blue Line 10 to the venue. 

Cercanias train tickets are about 2.60€ for a one-way trip and 5.20€ for a return one and can be purchased by the station’s automatic vendors. When buying a ticket, you must use it during the next 2 hours, while the return ticket is valid until the next day. Expect about 45 minutes of travel time including transfers.

### Taxi & Rideshare :taxi:

Madrid airport taxis are white taxi vehicles, with red stripes and the city’s emblem on their sides. They are lined up at the airport taxi ranks, no matter the time or day. Each terminal is equipped with two taxi ranks, one at the departures and one at the arrivals level, while passengers are highly advised to hire their cabs exclusively from the official ranks to avoid getting overcharged. 

Madrid taxis are metered. However, the ride from the airport to the city center is set at 30€, even if the transfer takes place during the night or on public holidays. Additionally, luggage isn’t an extra charge. The travel time is about 25-30 minutes, however, could spike up to 40-50 during peak traffic hours. 

Uber and Bolt are rideshare services offered in Madrid. The rideshare station at the Madrid Airport is located in the designated passenger pick-up area outside the airport labeled, "TNC/Rideshares."  

### Customs & Immigration

## Arrival Coordination :flight_arrival:
[ArrivalCoordination](/meeting/123/ArrivalCoordination)

## Departure Coordination :flight_departure:
[DepartureCoordination](/meeting/123/DepartureCoordination)

## Language :globe_with_meridians:
Spain's official language: **Spanish**

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons) 

## Money Conversion €
The official (cash) currency of Spain is the **Euro** (international abbreviation EUR€).

[XE Currency Conversion Website](https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/?Amount=1&From=USD&To=EUR)

 ## Electrical Plug / Outlet 
[Electrical Plug and Voltage Information for Spain](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/us/spain/) 
In Spain, power plugs and sockets (outlets) of type F are used. The standard voltage is 230 V at a frequency of 50 Hz.

## Weather :sunny: 
[Current weather conditions in Madrid, Spain](https://www.accuweather.com/en/es/madrid/308526/weather-forecast/308526)
 
## Emergency Assistance
In case of an emergency situation, the emergency number in Spain is **112**.
A selection of Hospitals are pinned in the above map.  

## Transportation


## Tipping Culture


