---
title: IETF 124 Montreal, Canada
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-07-21T13:41:16.332Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-04-30T22:20:14.349Z
---

# IETF 124 :canada: Montreal, Canada 
*To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF Datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have one, you may [create an IETF Datatracker account](https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/).*

## Meeting Venue
**Fairmont The Queen Elizabeth**
900 René-Lévesque Blvd W, 
Montreal, Quebec 
H3B 4A5, Canada

## Map
The following link is a map of restaurants, attractions, hotels, etc. in the Madrid area surrounding the IETF venue.
[IETF 124 Map of Montreal](https://www.google.com/maps/d/edit?mid=1QMqPM8PPjdUilmoegzcLh-OZ1lV1rRs&usp=sharing)

## Side Meetings
More information about side meeting signups will be available closer to the meeting date.

## Airport Transportation :airplane:

Various transportation methods to and from the IETF venue and the Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau (YUL) International Airport are avaliable.

The Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau (YUL) is the closet airport to the IETF meeting venue. Being about 20-25 minutes drive (18.6 km). 

### Bus :bus:
747 Express Bus

Featuring nine stops in each direction, the 747 bus service is provided by the City of Montreal 24 hours a day, 365 days a year transportation between downtown Montréal and Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport. Tickets are purchased at the cost of $10 inside the terminal before boarding (there are several ticket machines, spread in the terminal, most travellers concentrate on the one near the exit, search the others). When returning a $10 bus fare is paid aboard the bus (coins only, bills are not accepted). Tickets provide travelers with a transit pass valid on the STM bus and metro network for 24 hours. Alternatively, you can purchase a three-day ($19) transit pass which also covers the 747 bus and have transit for the beginning of your time in Montreal. (A weekly pass is probably not advantageous to IETF travelers, because it runs Monday-Sunday, does not cover the 747 bus, and requires a $6 OPUS card first.)

Two route options are available to you from the airport.

Destination Terminus Lionel-Groulx

A single stop
Travel time from 25 to 35 minutes, depending on traffic
Destination Centre-ville (downtown)

11 stops
Travel time from 45 to 70 minutes, depending on traffic
Stops at hotels on boul. René-Lévesque
Terminus stop at Berri-UQAM métro station
To reach your destination, we suggest to take the bus named Terminus métro Lionel-Groulx. The bus driver will let you off at Lionel-Groulx métro station, a transfer station equipped with an elevator. This way, you can go on to your hotel faster (roads and highways into the city sometimes experience heavy traffic).

### Taxi & Rideshare :taxi:
Taxis to and from the IETF Meeting Venue are estimated to be about CAD$40 one way, higher at rush hour.

**Rideshare:**
Pickups are on the upper level at door 6.


### Immigration, Baggage Reclaim and Customs

## Arrival Coordination :flight_arrival:
[ArrivalCoordination](/meeting/124/ArrivalCoordination)

## Departure Coordination :flight_departure:
[DepartureCoordination](/meeting/124/DepartureCoordination)

## Language :globe_with_meridians:
Canadas's official language: **English**. Although, Montreal is essentially a bilingual provence with **French and English** both being commonly spoken languages.

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons) 

## Money Conversion :dollar:
The official (cash) currency of Canada is the **Canadian Dollar** (international abbreviation CA$).

[XE Currency Conversion Website](https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/?Amount=1&From=USD&To=CAD)

 ## Electrical Plug / Outlet :electric_plug:
[Electrical Plug and Voltage Information for Canada](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/us/canada/) 
In Canada, power plugs and sockets (outlets) of type A and type B are used. The standard voltage is 120 V at a frequency of 60 Hz.

## Weather :sunny: 
[Current weather conditions in Montreal, Canada](https://www.accuweather.com/en/ca/montreal/h3a/weather-forecast/56186)
 
## Emergency Assistance :ambulance:
In case of an emergency situation, the emergency number in Canada is **911**.

A selection of Hospitals are pinned in the above map.

## Information Points for Visitors

## Tipping Culture

