---
title: IETF 125 Shenzhen, China
description: 
published: true
date: 2026-01-20T06:50:11.935Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-08-25T19:52:54.153Z
---

*To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF Datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have one, you may [create an IETF Datatracker account](https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/).*

## Meeting Venue :hotel:

**Futain Shangri-La**
4088 Yi Tian Road, 
Futian District, 
Shenzhen 518048, 
China

## Map :world_map:
The following link is a map of restaurants, attractions, hotels, etc. in the area surrounding the IETF venue.
[IETF 125 Map of Shenzhen](https://www.google.com/maps/d/edit?mid=1Xg4byeOgjaJEFrxb24G0OYy3AZx02Qg&usp=sharing)

## Side Meetings

More information about side meeting signups will be available closer to the meeting date.

## Transportation（交通需知）
We understand that traveling abroad can be both exciting and a bit overwhelming, especially when facing language differences. In China, most airports and train stations provide English sign, which will help guide you to taxi waiting area, shuttle bus areas, and other key locations. If you find that signs are unclear or insufficient, don’t hesitate to approach a nearby service desk for assistance — staff are generally helpful and accustomed to assisting international travelers.

## Airport Transportation :airplane:（机场出行）

There are three major airports near the Shenzhen area, Shenzhen Bao'an International Airport (SZX), Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport (CAN) and Hong Kong International Airport (HKG).

**Note**: You might need to save in phone or print out the Chinese name of your hotel or other destination, when taking taxi, in case that driver can’t understand English. (Such as Shangri-La Hotel in Chinese: 深圳福田香格里拉酒店.)

### Bao’an International Airport（SZX)

For guests arriving at Bao’an International Airport, you may take a taxi, Metro, or airport shuttle bus to reach downtown Shenzhen. The estimated fee for a taxi or DiDi from Bao’an airport waiting area to the Shangri-La Hotel (Futian) is between 100 and 150 RMB, depending on the time of arrival and traffic conditions.

Taking the metro costs approximately 5–10 RMB. You can take Metro Line 11 in the direction of Huaqiangnan (华强南). The ride takes about 35 minutes, passing through 8 stops before arriving at Futian Station (福田站). From Futian station, it’s about a 15-minute walk (approximately 900 meters) to reach the Shangri-La Hotel.

The Bao’an Airport shuttle bus also provides direct service to the Futian District. You can take the NA1 Futian Line (福田线) and get off at the second stop: Touzi Mansion (投资大厦). From there, it’s about an 8-minute walk (approximately 550 meters) to reach the Shangri-La Hotel.

### Guangzhou Baiyun Airport（CAN)

For guests arriving at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport, you can travel to downtown Shenzhen by high-speed train or airport shuttle bus. Train tickets can be purchased online via the official 12306 platform.

We highly recommend booking a train that arrives at Futian Station (福田站) in Shenzhen, as it is only about a 13-minute walk (approximately 800 meters) to the Shangri-La Hotel. However, tickets for this route tend to sell out quickly, so we suggest booking 1 to 2 weeks in advance. If tickets to Futian are unavailable, there are usually plenty of trains from Baiyun Airport to other stations in Shenzhen. From those stations, you may need to take a taxi or DiDi to reach the hotel. Most high-speed train tickets for this route cost between 60 to 80 RMB.

The airport shuttle bus at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport also offers service the route to Futian, Shenzhen. Please choose the shuttle line heading to Futian Port (福田口岸). The trip takes approximately 2.5 to 3 hours and costs around 120–150 RMB. Once you arrive at Futian Port, you can take a taxi or DiDi to the Shangri-La Hotel, which takes about 15 minutes and costs around 15 RMB.

### Hongkong International airport (HKG)

For the guest who arrive at Hongkong international airport, you can choose either the train or taxi to go to downtown Shenzhen.

#### Via Shenzhen Shekou Ferry

Taking the Shenzhen Shekou ferry from Hong Kong airport allows you do avoid to first immigrate into Hong Kong (possible lines) because the ferry terminal is at the airport before immigration. The ferry ride takes 30 minutes, then take the Metro or a taxi at Shekou port (40 min).

At Hong Kong airport, follow the signage to immigration but turn right before immigration to the ferry, give your baggage claim ticket to the ferry ticket team, then your baggage will be forwarded to the Shenzhen arrival port, so you do not need to pick it up in Hong Kong.

RETURN: If you liked the outbound ferry ride, then buy your return ticket for your intended return time directly at Shekou port before leaving to the hotel. Those ferry rides can quickly fill during popular times, and you do not want to arrive waiting in line to buy a ticket and worry your won't make it because you have to wait one ferry longer. You can drop the baggage in Shenzhen Shekou Port, get it in Hong Kong ferry terminal, then to the airline desk to check-in. It is better to arrive at Shekou Ferry two hours in advance.

#### Via taxis (change at border)

Taking a Hong Kong taxi from Hong Kong International Airport to Futian Port can be a time-saving option, but the fare is typically around 250–300 HKD. Please note that some Hongkong taxis only accept cash in HKD, so it is advisable to withdraw cash in advance using the ATM machines at the airport. Hong Kong taxis are only permitted to drop passengers off at Futian Port and cannot enter Shenzhen, which means you will need to transfer to a Shenzhen taxi or DiDi from the Futian port to reach the Shangri-La Hotel, the second taxi ride takes approximately 15 minutes and costs around 15 RMB.

#### Via taxi and train

Alternatively, you can take a taxi from Hong Kong International Airport to West Kowloon train station, then purchase a high-speed train ticket to Futian Station (福田站), which costs about 70 – 80 HKD. Ticket can be purchase on Trip.com with passport information. The train ride takes approximately 15 minutes and is a highly efficient cross-border option. Once you arrive at Futian Station, it is about a 13-minute walk (roughly 800 meters) to the Shangri-La Hotel.

#### Via minivan (most expensive)

Minivan services are allowed to cross the Hong Kong / China border, so they are arguably more conveninet, but also more expensive.

There are several minivan transfer services available at HKG that can take you directly to your hotel in Shenzhen. You can either book online in advance or make an in-person inquiry at the travel service counters located in the HKG arrival hall. The fare typically ranges from 300 to 500 HKD or RMB, depending on the travel company and type of minivan. It is recommended to travel with at least two or more partner to make the service more cost-effective.

### Complimentary Shuttles from Hong Kong Airport 

Thanks to our generous local supporter, Hong Kong Internet Registration Corporation (HKIRC), complimentary shuttles will be available for in-person IETF participants on **Friday, 13 March 2026** from the Hong Kong airport to the Futian Shangri-La.

Please sign up for this service by visiting the [Shuttle Bus Sign-up](/meeting/125/shuttle-bus) page as space on these shuttles is limited. If you are arriving outside of the available windows, please feel free to send an email to support@ietf.org. If we receive enough requests for an alternative time slot we will work with HKIRC to accommodate you.

## Arrival Coordination :flight_arrival:

[ArrivalCoordination](/meeting/125/ArrivalCoordination)

## Departure Coordination :flight_departure:

[DepartureCoordination](/meeting/125/DepartureCoordination)

## Local Transportation（当地交通）

### Metro :metro: 

Shenzhen is well-known for its mass metro system, taking metro is cost-saving and convenient; you can choose the English menu or ask the metro staff for purchasing the tickets.

Shenzhen metro website: https://www.szmc.net/szmc_en

### Train :train: 

China Railway now provide the online platform,12306, for foreigner to purchase the high-speed train ticket with Passport information, you can start to register or purchase on the 12306 train ticket website two week before arrival.

12306 train ticket website: https://www.12306.cn/en/index.html

### Rideshare and Taxi :car: :taxi:

The common rideshare App used in China is DIDI(滴滴), foreign phone numbers can be used for registration. If you already set up WeChat Pay or Alipay, you can use the DIDI mini app inside them and directly pay, otherwise foreign credit cards are also accepted by the official DIDI app. If necessary, ask hotel front desk people or any passionate people for helping place a taxi order.

AMAP（高德地图）is a map provided by Alibaba Group, and you can also call a car by AMAP. More drivers are using AMAP and it will be cheaper than DIDI in most cases.

## Language :globe_with_meridians:

China's Official Language（官方语言）is **Chinese** (Mandarin and Cantonese)

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons) 

## Money Conversion ¥

The official (cash) Currency (货币) of China is the renminbi (人民币, RMB), whose basic unit, **Chinese Yuan** (international abbreviation CNY), is most well known. Subdivision differs from what some people may be used to in their own country, as both one hundrenth of unit (ie. cent), called fen (分), and one tenth of unit, called jiao (角) are commonly used. Coins of a tenth of a yuan are therefore have a big "1" written on them, referring to one jiao.

[XE Currency Conversion Website](https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/?Amount=1&From=USD&To=CNY)

## Electrical Plug / Outlet :electric_plug: (电源)
 
[Electrical Plug and Voltage Information for China](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/us/china/) 

The electric power supply in China is 220V at 50Hz. The standard plug types are Type A, Type I, and Type C, with the most common being the 2-prong round or flat pins and 3-prong grounded plugs. Please prepare a universal converter if the type of plug or power supply is different.

## Telephone/SIM Card :iphone:（当地通讯）
It is highly recommended to purchase the SIM card at airport SIM card counter, since airport counter tend to offer English service. You need to present the passport to purchase SIM card plan. 
(**Note:** please purchase the mainland China version SIM card if you do so in Hongkong Airport)

Currently there are three major Chinese telecommunication companies dominate the mainland China market, China Mobile, China Telecommunication and China Unicom.

## Emergency Assistance :hospital:

In case of an emergency situation, the Local Emergency（紧急号码）numbers are:
**Police**: 110 
**Fire**: 119 
**Ambulance**: 120

A selection of Hospitals are pinned [in the above map](#map).

## Weather :sun_behind_rain_cloud: （天气情况）

[Current weather conditions in Shenzhen, China](https://www.accuweather.com/en/cn/shenzhen/58194/weather-forecast/58194)

The expected temperature in March, Shenzhen, ranges from 17°C to 23°C(approximately 62°F to 73°F), and it is typically the rainy season.


## Cultural Consideration（文化需知）

### Social Etiquette（中国礼节）
A polite nod or handshake is typical in Chinese professional business settings. It is recommended to download the translation App in case that English conversation with locals is unavailable. Being on time is highly valued in Chinese business culture. It's will be respectful to arrive a few minutes early for meetings, conference sessions, or group activities. Chinese culture emphasizes modesty. As a result, local people may appear a bit reserved at first — this is not a sign of indifference, but rather a form of respect and cultural etiquette.

### Cashless Payments（电子支付）
Mobile payment platforms such as WeChat Pay and Alipay are widely used across Shenzhen. While some establishments accept international credit cards, it's advisable to carry some local currency (RMB) or seek assistance with setting up mobile payments for convenience. China don’t have the tips culture, it is not required to pay tips in restaurant, bar or hotel housekeeping.

### Dining Culture (饮食习惯)
China is well-known for its cuisine diversity; almost each province has their own cuisine style and exotic restaurants, such as European, Japanese, Korean, Thai and Indian, are common in Shenzhen.

In most Chinese restaurants, hot water or hot tea is served by default, and cold or iced water is rarely available. If you prefer cold drinks, you may request bottled or canned drinks as alternatives. Many modern restaurants now use QR code-based ordering systems or paying the check, so it is highly recommended to download and register WeChat or Alipay in advance. Traditional Chinese cuisine often features rich and flavorful seasonings such as soy sauce, black vinegar, pickled vegetables, chili paste, MSG, and fish sauce. If you have any dietary restrictions or allergies, please inform the restaurant staff in advance. When it comes to seafood, it is common for traditional Chinese restaurants to serve bone-in fish or any shellfish with the shell, as a way to prove its freshness and natural flavor.

## Shenzhen Spotlight
### Recommend Restaurants :fork_and_knife:

**敏华冰厅 MinHua ice restaurant**
Established in the 1970s, MinHua ice restaurant specializes in authentic Hong Kong-style diner cuisine, featuring signature dishes such as barbecued pork rice, pineapple buns, and Hong Kong milk tea. The restaurant showcases a Hong Kong MTR-themed interior, with scale subway models and vintage posters recreating the underground ambiance of 20th-century Hong Kong.

Address: 40m East of Intersection, Fuhua Road & Futian Central 2nd Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong
Contact: +86 755-82538857
Approximately 400 meter from hotel (5-minute walk)

**满天福大酒楼Mantiānfú Grand Restaurant**
Backing onto Meilin Reservoir, this restaurant boasts a beautiful environment. Its bright and comfortable dining areas primarily serve Cantonese dim sum and modern Cantonese cuisine with Western styles. Signature dishes include Red Rice Noodle Rolls, Shrimp Dumplings (Har Gow), Steamed Chicken Feet with Black Bean Sauce, Roast Goose, and Roast Squab.

Address: Building 1, Meilin Cultural and Sports Center, Meili Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China
Tel: +86 0755-83053638
Located approximately 5 kilometers away, it's reachable within a 20-minute drive.

**西北领头羊 Northwest Bellwether Halal Restaurant**
Northwest Bellwether is a halal restaurant featuring internal environment inspired by the culture of Northwest China, showcasing distinctive ethnic elements. It specializes in lamb-based dishes like Hand-torn Lamb and Lamb Skewers, alongside Western Chinese specialties such as Big Plate Chicken (Dapanji). This is a must-visit halal dining destination.

Address: Shops 108-115, Building 1, Jinfeng Garden, Meilin Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China
(Located beside the mosque, 20 meters diagonally across from Exit C of Ziling Station [Line 9])
Tel: +86 0755-82712905, +86 13828736832
Located approximately 5 kilometers away, it's accessible within a 20-minute drive.

**巴蜀风Bashu Feng**
Ranked among the 《Top 10 Time-honored Shenzhen Restaurants Favored by Hong Kong Visitors in 2025》, Bashu Feng is renowned for classic Sichuan dishes like Spicy Diced Chicken (Laziji), Boiled Beef in Chili Oil (Shuizhu Niurou), and Mao Xue Wang (Spicy Blood Curd Stew). The restaurant features retro-industrial style adorned with vintage photographs and Sichuan Opera masks, creating an immersive ambiance rich in Sichuan-Chongqing cultural heritage.

Address: Unit L3-011-012, 3F, Galaxy COCO Park, Fuhua Road, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China
Tel: +86 0755-82035661
Located approximately 1 kilometer away, it’s reachable within a 10-minute drive or a 20-minute walk.

### Sightseeing :camera:

**Hong Kong City Tour**

Complimentary Tour of Hong Kong

Thanks to our generous local supporter HKIRC, a complimentary tour of Hong Kong will be available on **Saturday, 21 March 2026**. This tour will visit three to five tourist attractions, and will likely include lunch and possible other experiences.

Please sign up for this service on the [City Tour Sign-up](/meeting/125/city-tour) page as space is limited to 100 attendees.

**世界之窗 Window of the World**
As the cultural landmark of Shenzhen, Window of the world showcases 130 miniature replicas of global wonders – from the Taj Mahal to the Eiffel Tower. By day, explore world heritage sites; by night, witness the epic multimedia show 《Millennium Dance》 blending lasers, water screens, and acrobatics. A must-visit for first-time travelers.

**华侨城创意文化园 OCT-LOFT Creative Culture Park**

Transformed from former industrial facilities, this innovative district blends historic factory buildings with contemporary cultural spaces. Visitors can explore designer shops in renovated warehouses, enjoy specialty coffee in modern cafes, and experience live performances at the B10 venue. The monthly Creative Market showcases international artisan works, highlighting Shenzhen's thriving cultural scene.

**深圳湾公园 ShenzhenWan park**

This coastal urban park blends natural wetlands with modern cityscapes. Visitors can bike through mangrove forests, home to rare bird species, or admire the reflection of Shenzhen's high-tech district in the water at sunset. The park showcases the city's unique combination of technological development and ecological conservation.