---
title: IETF 126 Vienna, Austria
description: 
published: true
date: 2026-01-30T20:03:45.596Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-19T19:56:29.528Z
---

*To edit the wiki, log in using your IETF Datatracker login credentials. If you don't yet have one, you may [create an IETF Datatracker account](https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/).*

## Meeting Venue :hotel:

**Hilton Vienna Park**
Am Stadtpark 1
Vienna, Austria

## Map :world_map:
The following link is a map of restaurants, attractions, hotels, etc. in the area surrounding the IETF venue.
[IETF 126 Map of Vienna](https://www.google.com/maps/d/edit?mid=1bUEkHPhW3DCbcafDC5uVFuq0CVd8xhQ&usp=sharing)

## Side Meetings

More information about side meeting signups will be available closer to the meeting date.

## Airport Transportation :airplane:

Various transportation methods to and from the IETF venue and Vienna International Airport (VIE) are available.

Vienna International Airport (VIE) is the closest airport to the IETF meeting venue, approximately an 18-25 minute drive (17.9 km).

### City Airport Train (CAT) :metro:

The City Airport Train (CAT) is the fastest connection from the airport to Vienna city center, taking only 16 minutes with modern amenities like Wi-Fi, power outlets, and luggage space. The CAT runs at 30-minute intervals daily from 6:07 a.m. to 11:37 p.m. between the city center (Wien Mitte/Landstraße station) and the airport.

The Central Wien Mitte station also connects with the U3 and U4 subway lines for onward journeys within Vienna. Wien Mitte is located on the edge of the old town/First District, making it a convenient landing spot.

More information and how to purchase tickets ahead of time can be found. [HERE](https://www.cityairporttrain.com/en/) 

**Getting back to the airport from the city center:** CAT passengers have the option of using the City Check-In facility at the City Air Terminal at Wien Mitte. Assisted check-in desks and self-service machines are available for check-in with or without luggage. City Check-In is available every day between 5 a.m. and 10:45 p.m. for selected airlines. You can check in between 24 hours and 75 minutes before departure, depending on the airline. Information on which flights are handled at the City Air Terminal can be found in the [City Check-In overview](/https://www.cityairporttrain.com/en/info-service/cat-city-check-in/).

Having checked in with the selected airline at the City Air Terminal in Wien Mitte, passengers can drop off their bags by presenting a valid CAT ticket and receive their boarding pass in return. This eliminates the need for check-in and baggage drop at the airport, allowing travelers to go directly to security.

### Train :train:

The S7 S-Bahn railway line offers affordable direct connections from the airport to the city center. It operates every 30 minutes and stops at the Wien Mitte/Landstraße and Wien Praterstern stations in the city center, providing transfer options to Vienna’s S-Bahn and U-Bahn networks. The journey time is about 20 minutes to Wien Mitte/Landstraße and just under half an hour to Wien Praterstern.

### Bus :bus:

Vienna Airport Bus runs daily from the airport to Vienna’s city center, Donaustadt (via VIECON – Vienna Congress and Convention Center and Vienna International Centre (VIC)/Austria Center Vienna), and to Vienna Westbahnhof and Vienna Main Station.

The airport buses operate three main routes that run directly from the airport to different districts and have good connections to Vienna’s public transportation network. Early morning and night services mean buses run almost around the clock.

**Vienna Airport Bus Line 1:**
Fast connections to major international and domestic rail services.
**Vienna Airport Bus Line 2:**
Direct connection to the historic city center and the Danube Canal. 
**Vienna Airport Bus Line 3:**
Convenient for destinations in northeastern Vienna and for visitors to VIECON – Vienna Congress and Convention Center, Austria Center Vienna, and the Vienna International Centre (UNO City). 

### Taxi and Rideshare :taxi::car:

Taxis are readily available at Vienna Airport, located directly in front of the Arrivals Hall of each terminal, with options like Airport Driver, ATS, and 40100 offering fixed rates (around €37–€54 depending on luggage/zone) or metered fares.

**Uber** and **Bolt** are available rideshare services conveniently located at VIE.

You’ll also find “City Transfer” counters inside arrivals. There are several taxi companies you can call for service at the airport. Expect longer waits for taxis and/or Ubers during the busier summer months.


## Arrival Coordination :flight_arrival:

[ArrivalCoordination](/meeting/126/ArrivalCoordination)

## Departure Coordination :flight_departure:

[DepartureCoordination](/meeting/126/DepartureCoordination)

## Language :globe_with_meridians:

Austria's Official Language is **German**. English is also widely spoken.

[IETF Language Buttons](/meeting/buttons) 

## Money Conversion ¥

The official (cash) Currency of Austria is the **Euro €** (international abbreviation EUR).

[XE Currency Conversion Website](https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/?Amount=1&From=USD&To=EUR)

## Electrical Plug / Outlet :electric_plug:
 
[Electrical Plug and Voltage Information for Austria](https://www.power-plugs-sockets.com/us/austria/) 

In Austria, power plugs and sockets (outlets) of type F are used. The standard voltage is 230 V at a frequency of 50 Hz.


## Telephone/SIM Card :iphone:


## Emergency Assistance :hospital:

In case of an emergency situation, the emergency number in Vienna (Europe) is **112**.

A selection of Hospitals are pinned [in the above map](#map).

## Weather :sun_behind_rain_cloud: 

[Current weather conditions in Vienna, Austria](https://www.accuweather.com/en/at/vienna/31868/weather-forecast/31868)

### Recommend Restaurants :fork_and_knife:


### Sightseeing :camera:







