---
title: RPP - Hackathon
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-03-17T09:24:38.515Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-03-17T09:24:38.515Z
---

# Hackathon Overview

Overview of the RPP work done during IETF hackathons.

## IETF 122 (Bangkok)

### What did we do

- Discussion
  - Deployment modes for RPP (see slides)
  - Alternatives for the auth token used for domain transfer, OAuth2.0 might be an option for this. The concensus was that this probably something we would not want to include in the first version of RPP.
  
- Worked on a solution where a RPP server acts as a proxy for an existing EPP service. See the slides for an architectural overview.

### What did we learn

- TypeSpec can be used to specify an APi and data model. The OpenAPI and JSON-schema can be generated by TypeSpec.
- OAuth2.0 and related security standards add a lot of complexity, maybe add this in a separate document.
- Having an RPP to EPP workflow as working code might be useful for people
interested in testing if RPP functions correctly when using their own EPP deployment as an endpoint.

### Results

Working code for an end-to-end worflow for login and domain create (happy path only) and no underlying databse to persist the data. The JSON and XML messages are correctly generated, parsed and validated.

- Dockerized basic EPP server
- TypeSpec specification for RPP
- RPP server generated by OpenAPI and modified with custom functions
- RPP Client

Future work would be to provide a complete Dockerized environment for testing. Suring the next hackathon we could continue developing this code.

### Repositories

[RPP Server](https://github.com/SIDN/ietf-rpp-api)
[EPP Server](https://github.com/SIDN/ietf-epp-server-dummy)
[RPP Client](https://github.com/christian-simmen/py-rppclient)

### Links

[Hackathon presentation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/122/materials/slides-122-hackathon-sessd-restful-provision-protocol-rpp-02)
[Hackathon presentation (RPP wg session)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/122/materials/slides-122-rpp-hackathon-rpp-01)