---
title: IAB Retreat 2025
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-06-16T03:51:17.229Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-01-09T23:58:21.217Z
---

# 2025 Retreat

## 16-18 June 2025, Toronto



## Venue

Cisco
[RBC WaterPark Place](https://www.google.com/maps/place/RBC+WaterPark+Place/@43.6412316,-79.3806854,711m/data=!3m3!1e3!4b1!5s0x882b3757de085e91:0xc359f58994eb5f5!4m6!3m5!1s0x89d4cb2b39ecdfff:0x339b036765fc71b3!8m2!3d43.6412277!4d-79.3781051!16s%2Fg%2F11b6hs_351?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDIxMC4wIKXMDSoJLDEwMjExMjM0SAFQAw%3D%3D)
88 Queens Quay W #2900, 
Toronto, ON M5J 0B8, Canada
Banff Room, 29th floor
[Webex Details](https://co.webex.com/co/j.php?MTID=m79ab2a4cebde3b07bc9ef6e467e03eeb)

## Agenda

### Monday, 16 June 2025 (IAB Only)

#### 09:00-10:30: Events & Outreach

- Review plans and material for IGF and WSIS — *Roman/Dhruv/Mirja/Mark*
	- [Slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zX8BarH0zm_NzNr0QPk0en0i2zt_F_MatY9z8l7Sjx8/edit?usp=sharing)
- Outreach Planning — *Dhruv* 
	- [Slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mHATG1bplUOCj3cbvwa6ygSnyj_r8iFFigCLb0bKqTU/edit?usp=sharing) 
  - [Miro-Board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVNiPwtfs=/)
- Guidance for External (Non-IETF) Events [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/53) — *Dhruv*
	- [Slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lwq-UB5jKMKv8dFxkB1S-dmlyEbn_5C3HhOgg54efMc/edit?usp=sharing)
- Review ISOC Coordination board [(link)](https://github.com/intarchboard/ISOC-coord-board/issues) — *Ryan*
- Signing onto ISOC letters/documents; what is the criteria before we sign on — *Tommy*

#### 10:30-10:45: Break

#### 10:45-12:00: Appeal Responses

- Appeal response to "Appeal for forwarding of draft-ietf-lsr-multi-tlv" [(link)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/iab/appeals/artifact/130)  — *Alvaro/Matthew/Dhruv*
- Appeal response to "Complaint regarding antitrust violations" [(link)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/iab/appeals/artifact/132)  — *Jason/Mark*
- Appeal response to "Complaint regarding BCP 79 violations" [(link)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/iab/appeals/artifact/135)  — *Jason/Mark*

#### 12:00-13:00: Lunch

#### 13:00-14:00: Liaison Coordination

- Open Topics [(slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CeXbCROct4Dn2n7r8bz0hGd6M3wpFHFSRWcOnnySmK8/edit?usp=sharing) — *Suresh/Mirja/Qin*

#### 14:00-15:00: Process Discussions

- Decision / Voting Process [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/2) [(PR)](https://github.com/ietf/wiki.ietf.org/pull/95) [(slides)](https://github.com/intarchboard/retreats/blob/main/2025-06/Monday/IAB%20Decision%20Process.pdf) — *Tommy*
- Appointment Process [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/57) [(slides)](https://github.com/intarchboard/retreats/blob/main/2025-06/Monday/IAB%20Appointment%20Process.pdf) — *Tommy*

#### 15:00-15:30: Break

#### 15:30-17:30: Formal Board Meeting

- Minutes Approval
  - 2025-03-20 business meeting - (submitted 2025-04-14)
        OK from: Tommy, Dhruv
  - 2025-04-16 business meeting - (submitted 2025-04-17)
        OK from: Dhruv
- Accept and Discuss Reports
	- IESG liaison report — [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/31#issuecomment-2962221578) *Matthew*
  - IRTF report — *Dirk*
  - EDM program report — *Jana/Warren/Tommy*
  - EIMPACT program report — *Suresh/Mark*
- Adopt RFC4052bis / RFC4053bis [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/35) — *Mirja/Suresh/Qin*
- Approve IABOPEN agenda for IETF 123 [(link)](https://github.com/intarchboard/iabopen/blob/master/ietf123/agenda.md) — *Tommy/Jason*
- NomCom liaison / job descriptions [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yEA5WRZVvkQfC8Xbp1BBFBu_ldHC3K-TTC49fq4-IWk/edit?usp=sharing) — *Alvaro*
- Executive session
	- CCG appointment
	- RZERC appointment
  - Signing onto "Eight Practical Recommendations for WSIS Review" [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/ISOC-coord-board/issues/13)
  - Decision process (depending on earlier discussion)

### Tuesday, 17 June 2025 (AM IAB Only, PM Joint IAB/IESG)

#### 09:00-10:00: IP Geolocation Workshop

- IP Geolocation Workshop proposal [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/26) — *Jason/Warren/Jana/Tommy*

#### 10:00-10:15: Break

#### 10:15-10:45: Zero-Trust Networks

- Architecture for Zero-Trust Networks (see notes from 2025-01-08)  — *Cullen*

#### 11:00-12:00: Invited Technical Talk

- "Online Harassment" — *Zakir Durumeric*

#### 12:00-13:00: Lunch

#### 13:00-15:00: IESG/IAB Joint Kickoff

- Round table
- Joint topics
  - Recap outreach event plans (including IGF and WSIS) — *Dhruv*
  - Next retreat in APAC — *Qin/Dhruv*
  	- [Slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_-dXuzyxLup9FfyHl_tl23ZjHBAO9cMG-NnEL6D0klw/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Support (meetecho, etc) for groups to co-locate to attend IETF remotely  — *Tommy*
  - IETF@60 review suggestion [(link)](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/architecture-discuss/ywqFVF9wcmkYZz5J0b2MiEbgfos/)

#### 15:00-15:30: Break and Ice Break Event

#### 15:30-16:30: Age Verification Workshop

- Age Verification Workshop proposal [(issue)](https://github.com/intarchboard/responsibilities/issues/38) — *Mark*

#### Evening: Joint Dinner

1900-2130: Group dinner at [AGO Bistro](https://ago.ca/visit/dine/bistro), [317 Dundas St. West, Toronto, ON M5T 1G4](https://www.google.com/maps/place/317+Dundas+St+W,+Toronto,+ON+M5T+1G4,+Canada/@43.6535364,-79.3950596,676m/data=!3m2!1e3!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x882b34c593a29ffb:0x428aa3e28b994b99!8m2!3d43.6535364!4d-79.3924847!16s%2Fg%2F11bw42p0pm!5m1!1e1?hl=en&entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDYwNC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D)


### Wednesday, 18 June 2025 (AM Joint IAB/IESG)

#### 09:00 - 12:00: Additional Topics
* "Transition Accounts" for Slack (Roman)
  - Purpose: Share the Slack policy adopted by the IESG for possible adoption by the IAB
  - Materials: [draft policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S8S9B2JCNsG3nAv08RAWHgJCn9LPBLVpe0ZfpsbeuSA/edit)

* Submitting Appeals via the Datatracker (Cindy, Andy, Ketan, and Paul) 
  - Purpose: Proposal for a datatracker form to submit an appeal per Section 6 of RFC2026 (instead of an email based mechanism)
  - Materials: [draft proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jVvUg7bls7K8x8sOqYzzJ2aBfwxXZcQra1alVdWHPV0/edit?usp=sharing)

* Reflection on BoF coordination
  - Purpose1: solicit feedback on the current BOF request intake process (Roman)
  - Purpose2: proposal for improve BOF intake (Ketan)
  - Materials1: [discussion](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1V1S_BKrbziJR9XnmglVqy_eU5LBqDO_R0mvcfO3qYiA/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p)
  - Materials2: [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GDbTJZMw08LJLJMt_RKc9watXTaDvFELYBKwrSMzZ0c/edit?usp=sharing)

* Overflow for appeal responses
  - Purpose: Q/A by the IAB to the IESG to inform appeal responses

Parking lot
- 1. Breakout: overflow for appeal responses


 
## All Retreat Archives
[IAB Retreats](/group/iab/IAB_Retreats)

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

---
