---
title: MPLS Open DT meeting 2022-12-15
description: Agrenda and notes
published: true
date: 2022-12-15T16:07:07.894Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-12-14T09:00:19.476Z
---

# MPLS Open DT meeting 2022-12-15

## Agenda

1. Action Items
   Tarek

2. MNA complexity discussion Kick-off
   Tarek/Chairs

3. Discussion
   Chairs, all
   Complexity Slides:  [complexity-2.pptx](/complexity-2.pptx)
   We got a request to make the slides from the Open DT meeting 2022-12-01 available, they can be downloaded from the link above.

Minutes:
 - Greg: I've sent related comments on the solution drafts, but did not hear back. Request authors to respond to comments.
 - Tony: the options were discussed already and decided upon. It's past due to discuss complexity now.
 - Rakesh: agree with Tony. Will be responding to Greg's comments (planning to publish update soon).
 - Stewart: is the new update considering all non-IP payload cases?
 - Rakesh: asking to elaborate.
 - Tony: MNA is an optional payload.
 - Jag: asking for which usescase is missing in the proposed solution (Stewart responded to this).
 - Loa: would like a placeholder to acknowledge we may need further work to be done.
 - Rakesh: solution (TLV based) and allows for flexibility.
 - Stewart: TLV is new to MPLS. TLV in the dataplane does not have good history.
 - Tony: TLV protocols are established in protocols. We discussed other choices and decided no to proceed.
 - Jag: claim VXLAN uses TLV-like
 - John: no concrete assertions from Stewart.
 - Tony: would appreciate specific example of bad TLV dataplane example.
 - Rakesh: optional - best way.
 - Tarek: are alternatives to TLV considered (e.g. TV)? Are user signaled opcodes in scope of the proposed solutions?
 - Jag: XXX
 - Rakesh: there is a misunderstanding of variable length in the proposal. We plane to clarify this - every type has a fixed length.
 - Stewart: you have to have an "L" to be backward compatible.
 - Loa: draft-song and draft-jags both have TLV based proposal. Soliciting help understanding how both drafts glue together.
 - Tony: next version of draft-jags will support signaling of private actions. Solution supports all flavors of action ordering (IS, PS and mix)..
 - Jag: solution supports ordering because it is a requirement. Can requirements be relaxed?
 - Loa: draft-song addresses PSD only. We don't have similar one for ISD?
 - Tony: it's draft-jags already.
 - Tony: the solution is complex, but the real question is the solution very complex?
 - Greg: could the scope of MNA be narrowed down to simplify the solution? Can we do a walkthrough to (re)prioritize requirements?
 - Loa: care to be taken when relaxing requirements
 - Stewart: agree with Greg on narrowing down scope. On ordering actions discussion...? supporting MNA with existing MPLS payloads?
 - Rakesh: the solution in draft-jags is toolbox only. The application of that is to be studied.
 - Stewart: Good metric for a toolbox is does it support all the usecases we have.
 - Rakesh: agree. Suggests applications of solution draft-jags to present how they can use it
 - Stewart: separate draft to show how we solve the different problems using this MNA solution.
 - Rakesh/Jag: good idea. 
 - Tony: asking for a pointer from OLD MPLS wiki to the new MPLS wiki.
 

4. AOB


### Webex for Weekly Meetings

```
Cisco Webex has invited you to MPLS Open DT Meeting
Title: 	MPLS Open DT Meeting
Location: 	https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mbf31dd02f24ecc758e84e17a88cd20f7
When: 	Occurs every Thursday effective 2022-11-24 until 2023-03-23 from 16:00 to 17:30.

JOIN WEBEX MEETING
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mbf31dd02f24ecc758e84e17a88cd20f7
Meeting number (access code): 2439 621 4896

Meeting password: e3NvGD237aP


TAP TO JOIN FROM A MOBILE DEVICE (ATTENDEES ONLY)
+1-650-479-3208,,24396214896## tel:%2B1-650-479-3208,,*01*24396214896%23%23*01* Call-in toll number (US/Canada)


JOIN BY PHONE
1-650-479-3208 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)

Global call-in numbers
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/globalcallin.php?MTID=m45a086cd53a2fd17ecfcdd5535b3578d


JOIN FROM A VIDEO SYSTEM OR APPLICATION
Dial sip:24396214896@ietf.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.


Can't join the meeting? Contact support here:
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/mc


IMPORTANT NOTICE: Please note that this Webex service allows audio and other
information sent during the session to be recorded, which may be 
discoverable in a legal matter. You should inform all meeting attendees 
prior to recording if you intend to record the meeting.