---
title: MPLS Open DT ,eeting 2023-03-02
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-03-01T09:33:33.388Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-01T09:29:58.431Z
---

# MPLS Open DT meeting 2023-03-02

## Agenda

1. Action Items 
Tarek

2. Actions needed after the MNA-chairs statement on closing the wgap for draft-jags and draft-song.
DesignTeam

---

 

    **Working Group, MPLS Open DT**
    
    ---

    The closing of the wgap for draft-jags was planned to be done
    2023-01-14. It has been held open because of a pending IPR disclosure.

    We will allow the working group a few days after the IPR disclosure to
    react to it.

    The closing of the wgap for draft-song was planned to be done
    2023-02-24. This wgap will remain open to allow comments on the new IPR
    disclosure.

    It is clear from the poll on draft-song that there were significant
    objections to adopting it due to concern about the IPR.

    Hence, the shepherd is preparing to call consensus on not adopting this
    draft at this time after the upcoming MPLS Open DT team meeting on
    Thursday.

    There has also been a technical discussion on whether PSD is required
    for MNA or not. The working group chairs suggest that, for the time
    being, the working group holds the progress of PSD, and concentrates on
    cleaning up draft-jags to only address ISD.

    To this end, the consensus of the working group is to adopt draft-jags
    and allow the working group to address the concerns raised during the
    poll after adoption.

    The working group chairs suggest that the draft is cleaned up to only
    address ISD data.

    We anticipate that further discussions of the PSD solution will be
    documented in a new draft.

    The shepherds will allow the polls to remain until EOB of Monday
    March 6th.




3. AOB

