---
title: Untitled PageMPLS Open DT meeting 2023-03-09
description: Agenda
published: true
date: 2023-03-09T15:09:57.155Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-08T15:19:42.094Z
---

# MPLS Open DT meeting 2023-03-02

## Agenda

1. **Action Items**
Tarek

2. **Reporting**

---
       
    2.1 Call for Agenda slots
       The Calls for Agenda slots bortn for the MPLS and the joint 
       MPLS/PALS/DETNET meeting  has been issued. The chairs will use the 
       chair co-ordination meeting 2023-03-21 to finalize the aganda. 
       Consider it a good idea to have slot request in by then.
   
--- 

    2.2 RTG Area WG chairs meeting
    The RTG Area WG chairs had a meeting 2023-03-07, please find the 
    take aways below

---
   
       a. Responsible AD-s
          Andrew will be the responsible AD for MPLS and PALS
          John will be the responsible AD for DETNET
---

       b.Discussion on IETF IPR policy in general and the MPLS WG decision 
             
       There was an agrrement on the following points
       
       - each individual participant may privately evaluate IPR disclosures
         based their own thoughts about the IPR disclosure validity, 
         applicability and terms for each document. Public discussion on  
         validity, apllicability and terms is not allowed in the IETF.

       - IPR against documents is evaluated for each document.

       - the technical merits for each document is evaluated on their own.

       - similar or identical IPRs against two different documents does
         not need to be evaluated in the same way.

       - the consesnsus on the call was that(in the long  run) is a self-
         correcting process, i.e. any company that consistently discloses  
         unpopular IPRs will very shortly be causing more problems  or itself 
         than for other companies.

       - the ADs confirmed that the wg chairs has been handling the WGAP
         correctly
---
       
    2.3 Closing the WGAP on draft-song-mpls-extension-header
   
       The WGAP on draft-song-mpls-extension-headerhas been closed. We are 
       not accepting the draft as a working group document.
---
       
    2.4 Closing the WGAP on draft-jags-mpls-mna-hdr
   
       The WGAP on draft-jags-mpls-mna-hdr has been closed, following
       result in the WGAP the draft is now focused on ISD only.
       Version -01 has been posted, starting these changes, some discussion
       has also started on what should be done for version -02, 
       comments seem to indicate the steps taken for version -01 is in line
       with result from the wgap.
---

    2.5 Procedure for updating MNA working groups documents
   
       Chairs decided to trust the datatrack and the existing author teams,
       i.e. we post new versions after discussion on the mailing list, for
       each version the diffs will be confirmed or updated.
       
       An editors will be appointed for each document.
---       
       
    2.6 Updating existing WG documents
   
       The chairs has asked the author teams for the MNA Framework, the
       MNA Requirements and the MNA Use Case to review their documents
       to see if there are necessary documents. If necessary update and
       post a new version.
       It is anticipated that all MNA documents will foloow the procedure 
       outlined in 2.5.
       
---
       
    2.7 Editors for MNA documents
   
       Editors are sometimes appointed for working group documents, there
       might be several reasons. A person outside the author team might 
       be apointedif the work has stalled. Another reason might be that 
       the working group chair need a sngle point of contact if the group
       authors/contributors is large. An editor should be concerned about
       the consensus on the author group and and the working group in 
       general.
       
       Editor for MNA Framework: Tony Li
       
       Editor for MNA Requirements: Matthew Bocci
       
       Editor for MNA Use Cases: Tarek Saad
       
       Note: These appointments need to acknowlegded by the nominees.

---

3. AOB
- Early allocation for the bSPL for MNA label. Expect:
  - Authors to follow the procedure for early allocation (send request to WG chairs).


#### Webex for Weekly Meetings

```
Cisco Webex has invited you to MPLS Open DT Meeting
Title: 	MPLS Open DT Meeting
Location: 	https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mbf31dd02f24ecc758e84e17a88cd20f7
When: 	Occurs every Thursday effective 2022-11-24 until 2023-03-23 from 16:00 to 17:30.

JOIN WEBEX MEETING
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mbf31dd02f24ecc758e84e17a88cd20f7
Meeting number (access code): 2439 621 4896

Meeting password: e3NvGD237aP


TAP TO JOIN FROM A MOBILE DEVICE (ATTENDEES ONLY)
+1-650-479-3208,,24396214896## tel:%2B1-650-479-3208,,*01*24396214896%23%23*01* Call-in toll number (US/Canada)


JOIN BY PHONE
1-650-479-3208 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)

Global call-in numbers
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/globalcallin.php?MTID=m45a086cd53a2fd17ecfcdd5535b3578d


JOIN FROM A VIDEO SYSTEM OR APPLICATION
Dial sip:24396214896@ietf.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.


Can't join the meeting? Contact support here:
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/mc


IMPORTANT NOTICE: Please note that this Webex service allows audio and other
information sent during the session to be recorded, which may be 
discoverable in a legal matter. You should inform all meeting attendees 
prior to recording if you intend to record the meeting.

```

