---
title: 2021-09-28
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-27T18:12:30.341Z
tags: irtf, irsg
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-27T18:12:30.341Z
---

# September 28, 2021 IRSG Teleconference Minutes 


[DONE 9/28] Action item: Stephen Farrell to look at the SSR Web site to 
evaluate if co-locating with the IRTF seems logical. 

Action item: Melinda Shore to review draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs 
for IRSG Review.

Action item: Lars Eggert to re-review draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte for
IRSG Review.

Action item: Marie-José Montpetit to review draft-irtf-qirg-principles
for IRSG Review.

Action item: Dirk Kutscher and Dave Oran to coordinate with Cindy Morgan
of the IETF Secretariat to select a date and time for the ICNRG review with
the IAB [December 2021 - IAB meeting dates available: December 8 or 
December 15 at 14:00UTC]. 

Action item: Colin Perkins to publish the Policy on Inclusive 
Language in IRTF RFCs on the IRTF Web site.

Action item: The IRSG to review the IRTF Notewell slides and 
suggest changes if necessary [https://irtf.org/policies/note-well.html].

Action item: Amy Vezza to create and circulate a subscribable calendar 
for the IRSG.


INTERNET RESEARCH STEERING GROUP (IRSG)
Minutes of the September 28, 2021 IRSG Teleconference

Reported by: Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat
Corrections from: 

MINUTES
---------------------------------

1. Administrivia
1.1 Roll Call

Present:

   Carsten Bormann, T2TRG Chair
   Spencer Dawkins, At-Large Member
   Lars Eggert, At-Large Member
   Stephen Farrell, At-Large Member
   Ari Keränen, T2TRG Chair
   Marie-José Montpetit, COINRG & NWCRG Chair
   Dave Oran, ICNRG Chair
   Colin Perkins, IRTF Chair
   Eve Schooler, COINRG Chair
   Melinda Shore, At-Large Member
   Brian Trammell, PANRG Chair
   Rod van Meter, QIRG Chair
   Amy Vezza, IETF Secretariat

Regrets:

   Laurent Ciavaglia, NMRG Chair
   Jane Coffin, GAIA Chair
   Sara Dickinson, PEARG Chair
   Aaron Falk, At-Large Member
   Mat Ford, At-Large Member
   Jérôme François, NMRG Chair
   Jeffrey He, COINRG Chair
   Jana Iyengar, ICCRG Chair
   Wojciech Kozlowski, QIRG Chair
   Mallory Knodel, HRPC Chair
   Mirja Kühlewind, MAPRG Chair
   Dirk Kutscher, DINRG & ICNRG Chair
   Jen Linkova, PANRG Chair
   Allison Mankin, At-Large Member
   Alexey Melnikov, CFRG Chair
   Leandro Navarro, GAIA Chair
   Dave Plonka, MAPRG Chair
   Vincent Roca, NWCRG Chair
   Shivan Sahib, PEARG Chair
   Stanislav Smyshlyaev, CFRG Chair
   Nick Sullivan, CFRG Chair
   Christopher Wood, PEARG Chair
   Lixia Zhang, DINRG Chair



1. IRSG Administration
	* Welcome Amy Vezza

Colin Perkins introduced Amy Vezza from the IETF Secretariat and 
mentioned she will be supporting the IRTF and IRSG. 

	* Minutes from previous call
	* How to proceed with IRSG administration?

There was a brief discussion over the creation of a shared IRSG 
Jabber or Slack channel, and the IRSG reaffirmed the decision to 
wait until the all-IETF solution (Zulip) was implemented.

Carsten Bormann started a shared meeting note on Hedgedoc 
[https://notes.ietf.org/notes-irsg-2021-09-28#].

Colin Perkins talked about having a monthly IRSG meeting to 
focus on review of document status, how the research groups are 
working, the ANRP, and the ANRW.

Spencer Dawkins requested a shared calendar.

	* IRSG calendar


2. Document status
	* With RFC Editor
		  * draft-irtf-icnrg-nrs-requirements-05
		  * draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan-11 

draft-irtf-icnrg-icnlowpan was updated during IANA review based 
on comments from the Designated Expert for the use of a 
different code point. It was not a technical update, but the 
format changed in the document. 

	* In IESG conflict review
		  * draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke-12 

Waiting on the conflict review from the IESG [Roman Danyliw].

	* In IRSG Final Poll
		  * draft-irtf-icnrg-nrsarch-considerations-06 

Poll has concluded, waiting on a revision.

		  * draft-irtf-panrg-questions 

Poll has concluded, waiting on a revision.

	  * In IRSG review:
		  * draft-irtf-cfrg-spake2-23 

Ready for IRSG final poll. The chairs confirmed it was ready in 
email, so look for that soon.

		  * draft-irtf-icnrg-icn-lte-4g 

Document sent back to research group after final poll with 
significant concerns from Lars, Shivan, and Mirja. The document 
was revised to address comments; Shivan sent feedback, still 
waiting on review from Lars as it was a significant revision. 

Lars Eggert noted that his concern was more if the 3GPP would be 
surprised on publication. 

Colin Perkins replied that the document was on a set of 
experiments that could be done, but should not make any change 
to 3GPP. He requested Lars to re-review and comment if the new 
text made that clear enough.

		  * draft-irtf-nwcrg-nwc-ccn-reqs-06

Dave Oran reviewed, but Colin Perkins noted it needs an 
additional review from a neutral party. Melinda Shore 
volunteered to review it. 

		  * draft-irtf-qirg-principles 

Marie-José Montpetit volunteered to review the document. Colin 
Perkins additionally asked Nick Sullivan to review as well and 
is waiting on reply.

Marie-José noted that she had looked at the document briefly and 
had some initial comments. She expects to have a more in depth 
review soon.

		  * draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07 

Vincent Roca reviewed the document and a revision is needed.

		  * draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-history-08 

Vincent Roca reviewed the document and a revision is needed.

	 * In IRTF Chair Review 
		  * draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-concepts-definitions 

Colin Perkins is in discussion with the authors.

		  * draft-irtf-nmrg-ibn-intent-classification

Colin Perkins is in discussion with the authors.

		  * draft-irtf-hrpc-guidelines-10
		  * draft-irtf-nwcrg-coding-and-congestion

Colin Perkins asked if these two documents were ready for him to 
review. Marie-José Montpetit confirmed they were ready.

3. RG Status
	* IAB review of PANRG completed; feedback to discuss
	* IAB review of ICNRG needs scheduling
	* Seeking co-chair for HRPC

Marie-José Montpetit said that COINRG was progressing their 
documents with a series of side meetings. For NWCRG, she said 
that the Tetrys proponents have reappeared after several years 
of inactivity. They have requested to publish their document 
[draft-detchart-nwcrg-tetrys] as an informational RFC. Marie-
José noted that NWCRG was very close to concluding, and she 
wasn't sure the Tetrys proponents would follow through the 
publication path in a timely manner. She noted they have 
implementations, the work is solid, and the code works. Marie-
José also noted that similar to BATS, they could help the Tetrys 
work. 

Colin Perkins said if the work fits in NWCRG, and they could 
adhere to a strict timeline for the publication it would be fine 
to move forward. He asked if the work would be better moving to 
the IETF Transport Area.

Marie-José agreed it might fit well in FECFRAME. Additionally 
she could ask TSVWG to look at the document.

Colin agreed that seemed reasonable.

Marie-José said she would present both options to the Tetrys 
proponents.

Colin Perkins mentioned that the PANRG was reviewed by the IAB 
on September 22 and that the research group chairs should review 
the current PANRG charter and revise it if necessary. Brian 
Trammell agreed.

Spencer Dawkins noted that he attended the review as an IAB 
meeting observer and found it very useful as a member of the 
research group. He suggested more IRSG and research group 
interested parties join the calls when a research group was 
being reviewed.

Colin mentioned that the next research group to be reviewed was 
the ICNRG and they were looking to schedule the meeting in 
December 2021. Dave Oran mentioned that they should have that 
scheduled soon.

Colin Perkins is looking for new co-chairs for HRPC. He would 
ideally like one from civil society, one from academia, and one 
from industry to balance the needs of the group. 

4. Other activities
	* ANRP
		* CSP to announce winners for IETF 112
		* CSP and MF to plan for ANRP 2022

Colin Perkins mentioned that the winners for IETF 112 were 
known, and the announcement would be sent soon. He also noted 
that they were beginning to plan the ANRP for 2022.

	* ANRW
		* CSP to work with SIGOMM to select new SC members
		* CSP to invite one of previous TPC chairs to join SC
		* CSP to start planning for ANRW 2022

Colin Perkins briefly talked about ANRW, and that planning for 
the ANRW for summer 2022 was just beginning.

5. Policy on inclusive language in IRTF RFCs
	* [https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/irsg/Iqv8hkw3k0Gb-
VPDy0df5ClyooA]

Colin Perkins asked if any one objected to publishing the 
current text for the policy on inclusive language in the IRTF 
RFCs. There was no objection.

Action item: Colin Perkins to publish the Policy on Inclusive 
Language in IRTF RFCs on the IRTF Web site.

6. Statement on diversity and inclusivity
	* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Ju5de8pAuR8Xn5C-
K5ZY7iOLbn9HVVpHgnJ7Rkc99k/edit?usp=sharing]

Colin Perkins requested additional reviews for the current text 
on "Diversity and Inclusion in the IRTF." He noted the next step 
would be to have Jay Daley and IETF legal review the text. 

5. Co-locating IRTF with Security Standardisation Research (SSR) 
conference [http://ssresearch.eu/]

Stephen Farrell said that if the logistics of co-locating with 
SSR were easy it may make sense. Stephen indicated he would look 
at the SSR site to see if the work would fit with the IRTF and 
make a recommendation to the IRSG.

Melinda Shore mentioned she thought it looked reasonable, but 
has an open question on whether there was overlap between the 
SSR and crypto standardization work. 

Colin noted there were no objections, but meeting logistics 
would have to be worked out [possible future dates November 
2022].

6. GitHub CONTRIBUTING.md file for IRTF repos (Spencer)
	* 
[https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/irsg/aAW9_DngfikGS4q1f6f-
4OSlapM]
	* Do we require clarifications to the IRTF IPR policy?
	* What needs to change in the GitHub CONTRIBUTING.md 
template?

Spencer Dawkins said that the IRTF statement only talks about 
BCP 79, and not BCP 79 or the Trust agreement, but the IRTF 
statement references the IETF statement which does reference 
both BCP 79 and the Trust agreement. This may or may not be an 
issue with the GitHub CONTRIBUTING.md file for IRTF 
repositories.

Lars Eggert noted that there is LICENSE.md for the IETF that 
screen scrapes from the Trust site, so whatever the Trust says 
will be mirrored. Lars added he has a ticket open so the 
suggested CONTRIBUTING.md file will pull information from the 
Trust site in the future.

Spencer noted that the IRTF includes additional information to 
what is in the IETF Note well.

Colin Perkins said he thinks the IETF Note well and the IRTF 
Note well should be consistent with each other, but one has 
changed over time.

Lars added that the Secretariat has posted multiple forms of the 
IETF Note well to the web site (markdown, power point, PDF, ODP).

Colin said the IRSG should make sure the IRTF Web site has the 
correct version of the IRTF Note well, and make sure the template 
slides are correct. 

Action item: The IRSG to review the IRTF Note well slides and 
suggest changes if necessary. [https://irtf.org/policies/note-
well.html]

7. AOB

Marie-José Montpetit asked to speak with Colin Perkins about the 
Satellite Internet subject that is being discussed. Colin 
suggested planning a session at IETF 113 similar to an IETF 
Technology Deep Dive to discuss what work has been done on the 
subject.

}}}